



It's been a long time Snake .

That's no way to greet an old war buddy Snake .

What do you want from me .

I just invited you here so we could have a talk .

That's what you call sending armed soldiers after me .

Sorry if they were a little rough with you .

But we've got a serioussituation here .

Only you can get us out of it .

I'm retired from FOX-HOUND .

You will take these orders .

She's chief of FOX-HOUND's medical staff and anexpert in gene therapy .

I've been sent here from ATGC .

What's the shot for .

You don't like shots .

It all went down five hours ago .

Next-Generation Special Forces led by members of unit FOX-HOUND .

I'm afraid so .

FOX-HOUND hijacking a nuclear weapon .

Now you understand how serious the situation is .

You'll have twomission objectives .

They're both being held ashostages .

Those are some heavy duty hostages .

I haven't even said whether I'd accept this mission .

Well you can make up your mind after you hear more about thesituation .

Tell me about the nuclear weapons disposal facility .

The disposal facility includes a hardened underground base .

Sounds like a spy movie .

What's the insertion method .

Well an air insertion is impossible .

Not with this storm going on .

We'll approach the disposal facility by sub .

The facility is equipped with sonardetection capability .

They'd be able to hear our engine orpropeller noise .

We'll launch a one-man SDV (swimmer delivery vehicle) .

Same as a torpedo .

Only this has no propulsion device of its own .

From thereon you'll have to swim .

You want me to swim in sub-zero Alaskan water .

That suit represents the latest advances in poly-thermal technology .

The nuclear weapons disposal facility coversthe whole island .

I'll contact you by Codec after you reach yourtarget .

Anyone going with me .

Weapons and equipment OSP (on-site procurement) .

This a top-secret black op .

Don't expect any official support .

The Chief of DARPA and the president of an arms manufacturingcompany .

The truth is that secret exercises were being conducted at the timethe terrorist group attacked .

Must be extremely important exercises if those two were directlyinvolved .

Were they testing some kind of new advanced weapon .

I'm not privy to that information .

Do we know exactly where they're being held .

The DARPA chief has also been injected with a mini-transmitter .

Asyou get closer you should be able to pick up his location on yourradar .

Do they really have the ability to launch a nuclear missile .

They say they do .

They even gave us the serial number of thewarhead they plan to use .

Was the number confirmed .

I'm afraid so .

Isn't there some kind of safety device to prevent this kind ofterrorism .

A safety control system built into allnuclear weapons systems .

Because the DARPA Chief knows the detonation code .

All the missiles on these disposal sites aresupposed to be dismantled .

It's not that easy to get your hands onan ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missle) .

So what exactly are they demanding .

A person's remains .

Why would they want that .

The terrorists need them .

You see these Next-Generation SpecialForces have been strengthened through gene therapy .

You've heard of the Human Genome Project .

There are genes that do that .

I'll explain this part .

But it all depends on being able to isolate and identify those"soldier genes" .

One of the greatest soldiers ever .

The man they call the greatest warrior of the twentieth century .

You don't mean Big Boss .

We've been working feverishly to identify the genesresponsible for his incredible combat skill .

So his body was recovered after all .

Hisgenomic information is a priceless treasure to mankind .

Priceless to the military perhaps .

You people are amazing .

And then you're going to transplant thosegenes into soldiers .

We'll use a process that I discovered called gene targeting .

It's potentially more dangerousthan all the warheads on that island put together .

The Sons of Big Boss .

What's the time limit .

They say they'll launch after 24 hours .

Did they say what the target will be .

So far they haven't mentioned a target .

When did the countdown start .

So who's in supervisory control of this operation .

The President of the United States .

Which means that the President must be meeting with his top aidesin the map room about now .

No at this point they're still video conferencing with each other .

The Secretary of Defense has operational control and isfully aware of the situation .

I'm starting to get a bad feeling about this .

They'll be sending us some support .

We don't need desk jockies .

We need a nuclear weapons specialist .

A nuclear weapons specialist has already been assignedto us .

We need backup from a specialist .

I'm just an amateur when it comesto nuclear weapons .

That's why I've requested the assistance of a militaryanalyst named Nastasha Romanenko .

She'll be providing you backupby Codec .

She's built up an impressive record as an advisor to the NuclearEmergency Search Team .

Contact her if you have any questions .

Where's she working from .

At her home in Los Angeles .

Seems like a million miles away .

How well-armed are these terrorists .

I know there was an exercisegoing on at the time they revolted .

They're heavily armed I'm afraid .

What about they're battle experience .

The six members of FOX-HOUND in charge are all hardened veterans .

I wouldn't expect anything less from FOX-HOUND .

The others are Next-Generation Special Forces .

They're not youraverage grunts either .

Tell me about these Next-Generation Special Forces .

Until "they" were added that is .

Who's "they" .

These guys didn't start out as regular army .

Looks like a pretty international group .

And it gets worse .

Most of them were from a merc agency that Ithink you're familiar with .

They were part of Big Boss' privateguard .

They have noreal battle experience .

Video game players .

Don't forget they've all been strengthened with gene therapy .

Theycarry genes which make them excellent soldiers .

Don't get carelessjust because they don't have much experience .

I thought using genetically modified soldiers was prohibited byinternational law .

The interesting thing is that nearly every member of the unitconspired in this attack .

How could an entire unit be subverted to rebellion .

They're calling it a revolution .

They see the unit as their only family .

The Sons of Big Boss .

But they all took part in the uprising .

Several people didn't show up on the day of the exercise .

Was there any sign recently that something might be wrong .

There was a report a month ago that they were acting strangely .

Apparently they consulted classified information about the soldiergenes and performed their own gene therapy experiments .

They can do that even without you .

Well our gene therapy process is almost completely automated .

Andbesides that they're all geniuses with IQs over 180 .

Even the existence of this genome army is a national secret of thehighest order .

We'd been hoping to investigate this quietly anddeal with it behind closed doors .

Hi-Tech special forces unit FOX-HOUND .

An elite group combining firepowerand expertise .

They're every bit as good as when I was commandingthem .

So they're still around .

There are six members of FOX-HOUND involved in this terroristactivity .

Looks like a lovely bunch of folks .

Too bad we'll be meeting underthese circumstances .

Liquid Snake .

Yes and you're the only person who can stand against him .

The man with the same codename as you .

Tell me what you know .

His job was to track down anddestroy mobile SCUD missile launching platforms .

You were there tooI believe .

Didn't you infiltrate western Iraq with a platoon ofGreen Berets .

I was just a kid myself back then .

He was a spy for the British Secret Intelligence Service .

But he never once showed his face in Century House .

I thought that by the time I left they were no longer usingcodenames .

I don't know his real name .

That information is so highly classifiedthat even I can't look at it .

Here's a photo of him .

His skin tone is a little different but otherwiseyou two are exact duplicates .

I have a twin .

That's why we really needyou for this mission .

You're the only one who can beat him .

I can see it in your eyes .

Why don't I find that thought more comforting .

Let me go back toTwin Lakes .

Is your life in Alaska all that great .

There's a dogsled race this week .

Next Saturday I have to be inAnchorage .

The longest sled race in the world .

When did youbecome a dog musher .

Right now my fifty huskies are my only family .

I've got to take careof them .

Don't worry about your dogs .

What do you mean .

I'm sorry Snake but this vessel is headed for the Bering Sea .

You will accept this assignment .

Why should I be stupid enough to do that .

I'm no patriot .

I prefer to look at it as helping you to come to adecision more easily .

You'dtake this assignment even without the threat .

Why do you say that .

You're a natural born soldier .

You're not the grow old gracefullytype .

Same for all of us who've seen real action .

The only place wecan feel truly alive is on the battlefield .

I'm a solider too .

Why don't you comeback to us and be a soldier again .

You think my life is some kind of joke .

Why are you involved in this .

Becaue there aren't many people who know FOX-HOUND as well as I do .

Is that really the only reason .

Tell me the real reason .

I'll be frank .

A person very dear to me is beingheld hostage .

What was your niece doing here .

Several soldiers were reported missing the day of the revolt .

Andmy niece was one of those called in as an emergency replacement .

She looks like you .

She's my little brother's girl .

He died in the Gulf War .

Since thenI've been watching after her .

That's not very soldierly .

I'm just an old man now .

And I'm your friend .

Since when are we friends .

I've thought of us as friends since the fall of Zanzibar .

With my personality I don't have too many friends .

That's what I trust about you .

It's what makes you human .

Save my niece Meryl .

That's why I was called .

I'm not a colonel anymore .

Just a retired old warhorse .

Is she part of this operation too .

She was in charge of FOX-HOUND's gene therapy .

She knows more aboutthose men than anyone else .

You mean you've seen them naked .

I'm not a nurse .

I'm a scientist .

Not just one kind either .

Now I don't have to worry about food .

I also put some nootropics in there .

It's a class of drugs which wil help improve yourmental functioning .

It'll make smarter huh .

It's a type of stimulant .

It'll keep you alert andresponsive for twelve straight hours .

That was quite a cocktail .

Anything else in there .

Those nanomachines will also keep your Codec's batteries charged up .

I guess I can call you when I'm ready to go on a diet .

I need to borrow your scissors .

What are you going to do .

Just going to clean myself up a little .

I don't want to be mistaken for the leader of the terrorists .

Stay alert .

I'm going to goswat down a couple of bothersome flies .

Loud and clear Snake .

What's the situation .

Looks like the elevator in the back is the only way up .

Just as I expected .

You'll have to take the elevator to thesurface .

But make sure that nobody sees you .

When you want to usethe codec push the Select button .

When we need to contact you thecodec will beep .

When you hear that noise push the Select button .

I'm in front of the disposal facility .

Age hasn't slowed you down one bit .

How's that Sneaking Suit working out .

It's designed to prevent hypothermia .

This isAlaska you know .

If it wasn't for your suit and yourshot I would have turned into a popsicle out there .

An anti-freezing peptide Snake .

All of the Genome soldiers in thisexcercise are using it .

I'm relieved to hear that .

Two F-16s just took off from Galena and are headed your way .

Theterrorist's radar should have picked them up by now .

I have no idea .

Now's your best chance to slip in unnoticed .

There are only 18 hours left until their deadline .

You've got tohurry .

This is Mei Ling .

Shewas assigned to us as our visual and data processing specialist .

Nice to meet you Snake .

It's an honor to speak to a living legendlike yourself .

You're just flattering me .

Now I know I won't be bored for the next 18 hours .

Looks like we both have a lot to learn about each other .

The bright dot in the middle is you Snake .

The red dots are yourenemies and the blue cone shape represents their field of vision .

The Genome soldiers have highly developed sensesof hearing and vision due to their gene therapy .

Make sure youdon’t let them see you .

First I want you to infiltrate the disposal site and look for theDARPA Chief .

The DARPA Chief was injected with the same GPS transmittingnanomachines as you .

He should appear on your radar as a green dot .

Get whatever information you can from him about the terrorists .

Ifhe’s alive that is .

You won't beable to use it in an area with strong harmonic resonance .

We'll be monitoring your movements by radar .

I'll call if I'm feeling lonely .

I'm also in charge of your mission data .

Contact me if you want meto record your current status .

It's adedicated frequency for saving data .

Don't forget it .

You need to armyourself with whatever weapons you can find .

Imagine yourself put in thatposition .

I'll hold you to that doctor .

How did you do that .

Thanks to the shot you gave me that suppressed mystomach acids .

How are those going to help you .

I can't just knock on the door and ask them to let me in .

Onesentry on the left and one on the right .

They're armed with "fivefive sixers" and pineapples .

What about the air duct near the door .

There should also be a duct on the second floor .

I can't see it from here .

I'll let you decide the best COA .

What are you doing here .

I'm in retirement just like you .

Once in a whileI still help train the Alaskan Scouts .

Passing on the skills to a new generation .

Campbell told me about the situation here .

I thought I might be ofsome use .

There's no one I'd rather have in a foxhole than you .

I moved the DARPA Chief to the cell in the 1st floor basement .

What about the vent shaft cleaning .

They just opened the vent covers .

They're about to start sprayingfor rats .

Shut those covers as soon as they're done spraying .

Don't get careless now .

Woman in the cell .

There's an intruder .

He's already done three people .

He's killed three people .

They say he's using stealth too .

There's an intruder besides me .

I'm here to save you .

What's your outfit .

I'm the pawn they sent here to save your worthless butt .

You don't look like one of them .

First I want some information .

Do they really have the ability to launch a nuke .

What are you talking about .

The terrorists are threatening the White House .

They say if theydon't accede to their demands they'll launch a nuclear weapon .

Is it possible .

How do they plan to launch .

I though this place was just forkeeping the dismantled warheads .

THey shouldn't have access toa missile .

What I'm about to tell you is classified information .

Wewere conducting excercises of a new type of experimental weapon .

A weapon with the ability to launch a nuclear attack from anyplace on the face of the earth .

Metal Gear .

It can't be .

You knew .

Metal Gear is one of the most secret blackprojects .

How did you know that .

We've had a couple of run-ins in the past .

So that's the reasonyou were here at this disposal site .

Why else would I come to a God-forsaken place like this .

I had heard the Metal Gear project was scrapped .

We were going to use this exercise asraw data and then proceed to mass production .

If it hadn't beenfor the revolution .

Rex has fallen into the hands of terrorists .

These guys are pros .

They're all experienced inhandling and equipping weapons .

But I thought that all nuclear watheads were equipped with safetymeasures .

Some kind of detonation code that you have to input .

It's set upso that you need to input two different passwords in order tolaunch the device .

There are two passwords .

Baker knows one and I know one .

The president of ArmsTech .

Each of us has to input our password or there canbe no launch .

Psycho Mantis can read people's minds .

You can't resist .

One of the members of FOX-HOUND .

He has psychic powers .

It's just a metter of time before they get Baker's too .

If they find out Baker's password .

They'll be able to launch a nuke anytime .

But there is away to stop the launch .

And if I do that .

You can stop the launch .

So where are the keys .

Baker should have them .

You need three card keys .

Thereare three different slots to put them in .

You need to insert acard into each one of them .

Okay three card keys .

Do you know where they mught be keepingBaker .

Somewhere in the 2nd floor basement .

I heard the guard say they moved him to an area that has a lot ofelectronic jamming .

Why don't you look for the areaswhere the walls are a different cover .

It's my ID card .

It'll open any level onesecurity door .

It's called a PAN card .

It works together withyour body's own electrical field .

Personal Area Network .

It transmits data using the salts in your body as thetransmission medium .

As you approach the door's security devicesthey'll read the data stored in the card .

I'm going toget you out of here .

Are you sure you haven't heard anything .

I just said no .

That's their problem .

It has nothing to do with my orders .

What is it .

What's that .

I don't know .

It looked like a heart attack but .

This op issecurity level Red .

You need the highest security clearance toget access to the complete file .

The Secretary of Defense is in operational control .

Don't move .

So you killed the Chief .

Is this the first time you've ever pointed a gun at a person .

They'rerookie's eyes if I ever saw them .

You talk too much .

I told you I'm no rookie .

You're not one of them are you .

Open that door .

You've got a card don't you .

So we can get the hell out of here .

Looks like we'll be a little delayed .

What are you doing .

Shoot .

Thanks for the help .

You fool .

You've killed him .

I could not diveinto his mind .

Now we'll never get that detonation code .

Is it from thenanomachines .

The nanomachines are funtioning properly .

So what was it .

It must have been psychometric interferance coming from PsychoMantis .

FOX-HOUND's psychic .

Think of it as a mental feedbackloop .

Am I too late .

C4 .

Touch that wire and the C4 will blow up along with theold man .

So you're the one the Boss keeps talking about .

Special Operations FOX-HOUND .

Now we'llsee if the man can live up to the legend .

This is the greatest handgun ever made .

The Colt Single ActionArmy .

More than enough to kill anything that moves .

Now I'llshow you why they call me .

Just what I'd expect from the man with the same code as the boss .

Who are you .

I'm like you .

I have no name .

Who the hell .

I'm not one of them .

The DARPA Chief told me he gave them hisdetonation code .

Answer my question .

What about your code .

There's no time .

It's not like I didn't fight .

I managed to resist Psycho Mantis'smind probe .

He couldn't read you .

How'd you do it .

Surgical implants in my brain .

Kind of like a psychic insulation .

Everybody who knows thesetop-secret codes has it .

Even the DARPA Chief .

But the DARPA Chief said Mantis got his code by reading his mind .

Are you sure you heard him right .

I never had any training on how to resist torture .

It looks like he had some fun with you all right .

He's not human .

What happened to your arm .

Looks like you're more than even now .

His was sliced off .

You're a funny man .

It can't be .

Calm down .

What's wrong with you .

I just told you I was here tosave you .

I didn't kill the DARPA Chief .

He had a heart attack orsomething .

Those boys are totally insane .

They wouldn't hesitate to launch .

But what do they really want .

Maybe they're like us in the arms industry .

Well I'm not going to let these maniacs start a war toady .

Do youstill have the card keys .

To override tge detonation codes .

I heard you had them .

Who does then .

Not the terrorists .

A soldier that was thrown in prison along with me .

She said that she had just joined up as a new recruit .

She saidthey threw her in prison because she refused to take part in therebellion .

Could that be the Colonel's niece .

I gave her the key .

Looks like she managed to break out of herethough .

I hope she's okay .

I'm sure she is .

Buthow did you know she escaped .

I was in contact with her by Codec .

Until I was tied up herethat is .

She stole it from the guard .

I'm sure she still has it .

What frequency was she at .

Let me tell you .

Oh that's right .

It should be on the back of the CD case .

I'll contact her right away .

The team leader of the Metal Gear Rex project .

What if he can't come up with anything .

You'll have to destroy it .

Emmerich knows how to destroy MetalGear .

Where is this Emmerich .

It's north from here .

That's where he worked .

The Nuclear Age ended with theturn of the millenium .

The threat of nuclear war isn't gone .

The amount of spent nuclear fuel and plutonium is increasing eventoday .

Drums and drums of nuclear waste stacked this high .

As far asyou can see because there's still no real way to dispose of thestuff .

So they just close the lid and pretend like it'll go away .

And they're not even doing a good job of storingit .

Many of the drums are corroded .

It stands for "material unnacounted for" .

It proves that thereis a large and well organized black market in nuclear materials .

We live in an age when any small country canhave a nuclear weapons program .

What about the other superpowers .

Russia and China still maintain a signifigant nuclear presence .

You mean Metal Gear .

I remember hearing a lot about mergers and take-overs among thebig weapons makers .

That's why we pushed to have Metal Gear developed as ablack project .

Secret projects paid for by the Pentagon's black budget .

You canavoid a lot of red tape a get a great lead-time on your weaponsproduction .

And no one can bother you .

Not even those bleedingheart liberals on the military oversight committee .

I prefer to think of it as good buisness .

I don't give a crap about you and your company .

It's all here .

The main hard drive was destroyedby gunfire .

This is the only remaining copy of the data .

What kind of data .

All the data collected from this exercise .

Don't play dumb .

Iknow you were sent to get this .

I hid it from that sadistic maniacwhile he was torturing me .

They don't know that this disk exists .

I'll giveyou my card too .

It'll open up all level two security doors .

They got my password .

I have one more question .

Who or what was that ninja thing .

Itlooked like you knew something .

That was FOX-HOUND's dark little secret .

You should ask Dr .

Naomi Hunter from FOX-HOUND .

She knows betterthan I .

You've got to stop them .

Doesn't Metal Gear use currently existing technology .

What are you talking about .

Now he's dead too .

Don't lie to me .

It looked like another heart attcak but .

Some kind of poison .

Can I trust her .

Get in contact with her .

Try moving away from thatarea .

A member of FOX-HOUND .

I was really impressed with the way you busted yourself out ofthere .

The one from the prison .

Just exactly who are you .

I'm the fool that your uncle sent all alone into the middle of thiswhole mess .

You came by yourself .

You think you're some kind of one-man army .You're not even armed .

I appreciate your help from before .

I don't need lectures .

How do you know my uncle .

We go way back .

What's your name .

My name's not important .

Are you Solid Snake .

That's what some people called me .

I wasn'tsure if you were one of the good guys .

But I knew you were .

It's your eyes .

They're not soldiers eyes .

Just what I'd expect from the legendary Solid Snake .

You tryingto sweep me off my feet .

You'll land back on them once you meet me .

I don't believe that .

Why did you look surprised when you saw my face .

Because you look just like him .

You're not brothers are you .

I have no family .

Why don't you ask him .

But first I want someinformation .

You were involved in this excercise from thebeginning .

What exactly happened here .

I was captured along with President Baker right afterthe terrorist attack .

But what is this place .

I don't think it is just anuclear wepaons disposal facility .

This base is owned and operated by a dummycorporation of ArmsTech .

This is a civilian base .

For the development of Metal Gear .

FOX-HOUND and the Next-Generation Special Forces were calledhere for the test launching of a dummy nuclear warhead .

Why FOX-HOUND .

Because they're a Special Ops group used to handling top secretmissions .

They figured they could keep it all hush-hush .

But we must have fired nuclear warheads before .

Why just this time .

I heard it was because this was to be a final test before the formaladoption of the Metal Gear program .

So what do you think the terroristswant .

I was captured with President Baker rightafter the revolt started .

Amazing you were able to keep 'em hidden from the guards .

How's he holding up .

Same as the DARPA Chief .

The Chief died from a heart attck too .

Something funny's going on .

But I have no idea what .

Do you know the person who designed Metal Gear .

Is he still alive .

I think they're forcing him to workon the nuclear launching program .

So they'll need him alive until that's done anyway .

Then we'd better do something before he finishes .

It won't be the first time .

What's the best way to get to the building where the Doctor is beingheld .

There's a cargo door on the first floor of this building thatleads to the north .

What's the security level of the door there .

I've got a level five card .

I'm going with you .

No way .

You're still too green .

I want you to hide somewhere .

I'm not green .

Oh yes you are .

You pause for just one second in front of your enemy and it'sall over .

Good luck doesn't last forever .

I don't know what happened .

I just couldn't pull the triggerright away .

I never had any problems in training .

I can't quit .

I can't alow myself to quit now .

Everybody feels sick the first time they killsomeone .

It's easy to forget what a sin is in the middleof a battlefield .

But this isn't a war .

It's a terrorist action .

You're just a little jumpy from the combat high .

The adrenalinein your blood is starting to whin out .

Just take it easy .

But I learned all about combat high at the academy .

We'll talk about it later .

Stay the hell out of my way .

The real me is no match for the legend .

It looks like you were right .

We'll link up after I grab the Doctor .

Then we'll take care of thedetonation code override .

Call me if youhave any questions .

Where I can see ya .

Don't move around too much .

You won't be for long with the way you walk .

What does that mean .

It's equippedwith infrared sensors .

I changed my mind .

Don't get careless .

That is when things always turn sour .

I gotta get my hands dirty .

These guys are proffesionals .

You're gonna get yourself killed .

There are Claymore mines around there .

Just call me "Deepthroat" .

The informant from the Watergate scandal .

Never mind about that .

You're not using burst transmission .

There's a tank in front of your position waiting toambush you .

Who are you anyway .

One of your fans .

This is Raven's territory .

Ha ha ha ha ha .

Youshould crawl on the ground like the Snake you are .

I hope you are happy .

He got the card .

You would be wise not to underestimate him .

What did you think of him .

He is just as you said .

In battle he is as if possessed by ademon .

I would expect no less .

I told you so .

But I will kill him .

Itis known as an animal to be feared .

Don't kill him yet .

He and I will meet again in battle .

Same prediction as always .

The raven on my head .

You absolutely must not use weapons in that area .

What are you talking about .

That's where they keep the nuclear warheads .

They're all dismantled warheads .

They just leave them here .

It's like President Baker said .

They're working on a limited budget .

Nastashaknows lots more than I do .

All of the warheads in those boxes have had their detonationmechanisms removed so there's no fear of them exploding .

But isthe warheads are broken they might leak plutonium and that wouldbe a serious problem .

First destroy the high voltage switch .

Itsthe switchboard on the northwest wall .

I can't reach it .

Use a remote-controlled missile .

It looks like they were cut by some type of blade .

Where is my friend .

You're that ninja .

Neither enemy nor friend .

I am back from a world where suchwords are meaningless .

I've removed all obstacles .

Now you and Iwill battle to the death .

What do you want .

I've waited a long time for this day .

Now I wanto to enjoy themoment .

It's like one of my Japaneseanimes .

I've come from another world to do battle with you .

It is nothing so trivial as revenge .

A fight to the death withyou .

Only in that can my soul find respite .

I will kill you oryou will kill me .

I need that man .

Keep your hands off him .

Make me feel alive again .

Do you remember me now .

It can't be .

You were killed in Zanzibar .

I'm losing myself .

No doubt about it .

It happened before I joined FOX-HOUND's medical staff .

They wereusing a soldier for their gene therapy experiments .

I never heard that .

It happened right after you retired .

He started the gene therapy project .

And where is he now .

He was killed in an explosion in his lab two years ago .

And what about this soldier .

And that was Grey Fox .

But he was already dead .

But they revived him .

They fitted him with a prototypeexoskeleton and kept him drugged for four years while theyexperimented on him like a plaything .

Today's genome soldiers wereborn from those experiments .

That's the sickest thing I ever heard .

They used him to test all sorts of gene therapy techniques .

Because it's confidential information .

Is that the only reason .

What happened to Grey Fox after that .

The record says he died in the explosion .

Are you saying that he's just a mindless robot .

So you'll fight again .

Until you kill him .

How long are you going to stay in there .

I always work alone .

Are you an Otaku too .

We can't stay here forver .

Your uniform is different from theirs .

I heard about you from Meryl .

So you're here to rescue me .

There's something that I've got to do first .

I just twisted my ankle a little bit trying to getaway .

I want to askyou something .

I need information about Metal Gear .

What's Metal Gear really designed for .

It's a mobile TMD .

What are you talking about .

The terrorists are planning to use Metal Gear to launch anuclear missile .

You telling me I didn't know .

They're going to put a nuclear missile into Metal Gear'sTMD missile module .

The terrorists are just continuing the work you started .

All the armamnet was built by a seperate department andthe president personally supervised the final assembly of themain unit .

I was never told exactly what they armed Rex with .

A rail gun you said .

It uses magnets to fire bullets at extremely highvelocities .

The technology was originally developed for the SDIsystem and later scrapped .

We were successful in miniaturizing itin a joint venture between ArmsTech and Rivermore National Labs .

Metal Gear's main funtion is to launch nuclear missiles .

You'resure you're not forgetting something .

It's true that Metal Gear has a missile module on his backthat can carry up to eight missiles .

But are you saying it wasoriginally meant to carry nuclear missiles .

They were using NOVA and NIF lasernuclear fusion testing equipment and supercomputers .

They wouldneed actual launch data .

These are some of the supercomputers .

If you link these you cantest everything in a virtual environment .

But it's all just theoretical .

So this exercise was designed to test the real thing .

What did our president do .

If the terrorists launch that thing .

I'm such a fool .

It's all my fault .

The day of the Hiroshima bomb .

God's got a sense of humour allright .

Three generations of Emmeich men .

We must have the curse ofnuclear weapons written into our DNA .

I used to think I could use science to help mankind .

But the onethat wound up getting used was me .

Using science to help mankind .

That's enough crying .

Pull yourself together .

Where is MetalGear .

Where on this base are they keeping it .

Rex is in the underground maintainence base .

North of the Communications Tower .

But it's a long way there .

The emergency override system for the detonation code is theretoo .

Meryl's got the detonation override keys .

We'll link up with her .

If we can't override the launch we'll have to destroy Rex .

I'll show you the way .

On that leg of yours .

You'll just slow me down .

You'll need me if you're gonna destroy Rex .

I don't need you .

I just need your brain .

It's my right .

When the coast is clear I'lltry to contact you by Codec .

How am I supposed to escape from an island .

I want you to hide somewhere and keep me informed .

Of course I do .

And don't worry .

I've got this .

It's the same stealth technology as the ninja .

But I want Meryl to watch after you too .

That's a relief .

I want you to look after him .

Where are you now .

Did you hear something .

Wasn't that some kind of music .

What did she look like .

She had such a cute way of walking .

She kind of wiggles her behind .

You were really looking .

Way of walking .

There's only one place where we can be sureshe's by herself .

Don't be so dense .

It's security level 4 .

Getting all fiendly all of a sudden .

I'm glad you're okay .

I'm a little nervous .

Everyone else I've saved suddenly dies .

You're bad luck .

It stands for Otaku Convention .

An Otaku is a guy like me wholikes Japanimation .

Japan was the first country to successfully make bipedal robots .

And Japanese cartoons played some part in that .

That's what all scientists say .

I became a scientist because I wanted to make robots like the onesin the Japanese Animes .

Just sounds like a childish excuse to me .

We have to take responsibility .

Science has alwaysthrived on war .

The greatest weapons of mass destruction werecreated by scientists who wanted to be famous .

But that's allover now .

I won't take part in murder anymore .

All I want from you is information .

I know everything about this whole base .

About this baseor Rex .

That's the second time I've been able to sneak up on the legendarySolid Snake .

There's no way you could pass for a man for long .

What do you mean .

I had no idea you were so feminine .

When I joined up they gave me psychotherapy todestroy my interest in men .

You're Meryl all right .

So why'd you change .

You'd be better off dressed like one of them .

I got tired of disguising myself .

What's that mark .

It's a paint tattoo .

It's not real .

I was afan of FOX-HOUND way back .

When guys like you and my uncle werein it .

None of that gene therapy like there is today .

You guyswere real heroes .

There are no heroes in war .

All the heroes I know are eitherdead .

One or the other .

You're a hero .

I'm just a man who's good at what he does .

There's nowinning or losing for a mercenary .

The only winners in war arethe people .

And you fight for the people .

I've never fought for anyone but myself .

I've got no purpose inlife .

It's only when I'm cheating death on the battlefield .

The onlytime I feel truly alive .

You love warand don't want it to stop .

Is it the same with all greatsoldiers throughout history .

Why didn't you contact me .

My Codec was broken .

Shouldn't you just be happy that we met up like this .

How didyou recognize me in disguise .

I never forget a lady .

So there's something you like about me .

On the battlefield you never think about what's next .

Somebody's got to prevent them from launching a nuclear missile .

There are two ways .

You got the card keys fromBaker .

Where are the others .

There should be three keys .

This is all I've got .

Where could the other two be .

If we can't find themwe'll have no choice but to destroy Metal Gear .

Metal Gear is in an underground maintenance base to the north .

I know this place better than you do .

You'll just slow me down .

You don't have enough battle experience .

I won't slow you down .

And what if you do .

Then you can shoot me .

I don't like to waste bullets .

I'll be careful .

I don't use makeup the wayother women do .

I hardly ever look at myself in the mirror .

I'vealways despised that kind of woman .

I always dreamed of becominga soldier .

But I was wrong .

It wasn't really my dream .

You wanted to follow in your father's footsteps .

I thought that if I became a soldier I couldunderstand him better .

So are you a soldier yet .

I thought I was until today .

The truthis I was just afraid of looking at myself .

Afraid of having tomake my own decisions in life .

But I'm not going to lie to myselfany more .

I want to know why I'velived the way I've lived until now .

I want to know .

Take a good look .

You won't get anothert chance for a while .

Youshould wash your face while you're at it .

This isn't a trainingexercise .

Our lives are riding on this .

There are no heroes orheroins .

Is that FAMAS functional .

Unfortunately it's out of ammo .

Where'd ya' get that Desert Eagle .

I found it in the armory .

It's a .50 caliber Action Express .

Isn't that gun a little big fora girl .

Use my .45 .

I'mmore comforatble with it than I am with a bra .

The overland route is blocked byglaciers .

The door to the commander's room is security levelfive .

This card will open it .

It was inside the pocket of the uniform I was wearing .

Looks like he must have been guarding someplace important .

I know this place better than you .

I'll bepoint man .

There's no guard .

What happened to the music .

I'll keep a look out .

My head .

FOX-HOUND .

The commander is waiting .

What the .

Do you like me .

Who's that .

You don't like girls .

Don't use your weapon .

It's psycho Mantis .

He's controlling Meryl .

That tune is hismind control music .

Don't use your weapon .

Try to knock her out .

I hope that's not your only trick .

I am Psycho Mantis .

It is true power .

I can read your every thought .

Still don't believe me .

Now I'll read more deeply into your soul .

You still don't believe me .

I will show you my psychokineticpower .

Put your controller on the floor .

Put it down as flat asyou can .

Now I will move your controller by thepower of my will alone .

What do you think now .

Can you feel my power now .

Stand right where he can see you .

I owe you one .

Why did you go so far out of your way to save her .

I don't want to see any woman die right in front of me .

Since when did anybody's death bother you so much .

I wasn't able to read the future .

A strong man doesn't need to read the future .

He makes his own .

But I will also read your future .

To get to Metal Gear's underground maintenance base .

There's a hidden door behind thebookcase .

Then use the tower's walkway .

Why are you telling me this .

I can read people's minds .

And each mind that I peered into was stuffed with the same singleobject of obsession .

That selfish and atavistic dsire to pass onone's seed .

Every living thingon this planet exists to mindlessly pass on their DNA .

We'redesigned that way .

And that's why there is war .

You're the same as us .

We live in the moment .

That's out only purpose .

Humansweren't designed to bring eachother happiness .

The first person who's mind I doveinto was my father's .

I saw nothing but disgust and hatred for mein his heart .

My mother died in childbirth .

I thought my father was going to kill me .

That's when my future dissapeared .

I lost my past as well .

Are you saying you burned your village down to bury your past .

I see that you have suffered the same trauma .

The world is a moreinteresting place with people like you in it .

I never agreedwith the Boss's revolution .

His dreams of world conquest do notinterest me .

I just wanted an excuse to kill as many people as Icould .

He doesn't have much time left .

I've seen true evil .

You're just like the Boss .

I read her mind as well .

I saw you there .

But I do not know if your futures lietogether .

I have a last request .

I want to be by myself .

I want to be left alonein my own world .

I'll open the door for you .

This isthe first time I've ever used my power to help someone .

How could I let Mantis control my mind like that .

Just let it make you stronger .

I won't do it again .

About what Mantis said .

I was just wondering .

What's the problem now .

What's your name .

Name means nothing on the battlfield .

How old are you .

OLd enough to know what death looks like .

Is there anyone you like .

I've never been interested in anyone else's life .

So you are all alone .

Just like Mantis said .

Other people just complicate my life .

I don't like to getinvolved .

I thought you were good with dogs .

This place is mined .

The radar isn't working .

And since we can't use the minedetector either .

Leave it to me .

How did you know where the mines were .

I am a rookie after all .

It's me they want .

The sniper'susing me for bait to lure you out .

I can't reach it by myself .

I wouldn't slow you down .

I want to help you .

Quiet down .

Save your strength .

But war is ugly .

Save yourself .

Go on living and don't give up on people .

Don't forgetme .

Now get out of here .

The sniper's waiting for you to go and help Meryl so he can pick you off .

Don't do it .

She's just watching and waiting for you to exposeyourself .

There's no where to hide between here and the tower .

At that distance you won'tbe able to hit her with a standard weapon either .

You'll need asniper rifle .

I'm going to save Meryl no matter what it takes .

I'm just surprised you're willing to sacrificeyourself .

Trying to say that I'm only interested in saving my own skin .

I wouldn't go that far but .

I don't know what the hell my genes look like and I don't care .

I'm going to save Meryl .

I don't need an excuse .

And I'm not doing it for someone else either .

I'm going to saveMeryl by myself .

You've got a PSG1 .

Hurry up and save Meryl .

It's hard to miss when you're this close .

Toss your weapon over here .

You are a fool to come down here .

A lady sniper .

Do you want to die now .

Or after your female friend .Which will it be .

I'll die after I kill you .

Well at least you've got spirit .

I am Sniper Wolf and I always kill what I aim at .

You're my .

I've left my mark on you .

I won't forget it .

Don't kill him yet .

I want him alive .

Leave it to me .

I want no more accidents like that DARPA Chief .

He's my target .

He's tougher than I thought .

Do you know who I am .

I always knew that one day I would meetyou .

The man who stole what was rightly mine .

I'm the man you stole everything good from .

The brother of light and thebrother of dark .

Do you need his DNA too .

We need it tocorrect the Genome Soldier's mutations .

Then we'll be able to cure them .

We still have to get our hands on Big Boss's DNA .

Have they given in to our demands yet .

They won't give in .

Is that your opinion as a Kurd .

They always put politics first .

That's why they want to avoid any leak about theirprecious new nuclear weapon .

There definitely is a resemblance .

Or should I say big brother .

I'm not sure .

You and I are both the last surviving "sons ofBig Boss" .

It's me .

Those idiots .

All right Raven .

They're not responding to our demands .

We'll launch the first onein 10 hours as planned .

Looks like you read them wrong .

Normally the Americans are the first ones tothe negotiating table .

They must think they've go something uptheir sleeves .

We're going to launch that nukeand ride it all the way into history .

I've got to take care of some launch preparations .

Wanna stay for the show .

I'm not interested .

It's time to feed the family .

That was an accident .

I didn't think a pencilpusher like him would be so tough .

He killed 12 men .

Bastard took my hand .

How could he have gotten in here .

Perhaps there's a spy among us .

We've also gotto find out what killed Baker and Octopus .

This is an interrogation .

Your woman is still in this world .

How are you feeling .

I caught a nice nap on this revolving bed of yours .

Toobad I was sleeping alone .

Glad to hear that .

This is some bed all right .

I'm about to showyou some of its nicer features .

Where are my things .

Oh don't worry .

They're all there .

Washington was taking quitea chance sending you here .

Someone must have had a lot of faithin your skill .

Why don't you go ask Campbell for the full story .

What if I did .

Is that the only disc .

There's no other data .

What do you mean .

There's no copy .

She's not dead yet .

Wolf must have been feeling generous .

But ifyou want her to stray that way you better start answering myquestions right now .

You were holding one card key .

Where arethe other two .

What's the trick behind that key .

That weasel ofa president said there's some kind of trick to using the key .

Hell if I know .

Andwe'll find out what kind of man we really are .

When the painbecomes too great to bear just give up and your suffering willend .

Looks like I've got a roommate .

The DARPA Chief .

I've been better .

We're trying to buy some more time .

Why don't you stop playing dumb .

I'm sorry aboutMeryl but I want the lies to end now .

What are you talking about .

Why did you try to hide it .

Does theWhite House know about this .

How deep does it go .

These are sensitive times .

Even sub-critical nuclear tests arecausing quite a stir .

And tomorrow the President and his Russian counterpart arescheduled to sign the Start 3 Accord .

That's the reason for the deadline .

And that's why we can't let the terrorist attack go public .

We still haven't even ratified Start 2 or dealt with the issue ofTMDs .

This has to do with the Presodent's reputation andAmerica's place as the dominant superpower .

So patriotism is your excuse for circumventing the Constitution .

Because you're the only one who can .

I told you before .

I don't knwo the details .

I don't believe you .

Let them have Big Boss's remains .

Or is there some reason that you can't do that .

Something youhaven't told me about .

We don't want the existance of the GenomeArmy to go public .

And that's the only reason .

The corpse of the DARPA Chief is lying right here next to me .

But it's strange .

He looks and smells like he's been dead for days .

All his blood's been drained out too .

Maybe to slow down decomposition .

I have no idea .

But he's already started to decompose .

What could it all be about .

SOmething in his blood that they wanted .

Just the nanomachines and the transmitter .

Did the Chief tell them his detonation code .

I'm afraid so .

It looks like they've got both codes and arenearly ready to launch .

Is there any way to prevent it .

It seems there's some type of emergency override device that cancancel out the detonation code .

It's a countermeasure thatArmsTech installed secretly .

You have to unlock it with threespecial card keys .

And where are those keys .

I've got one of them .

I don't know where the other two are .

We've got no choice .

Forget about the keys .

Your top prioritynow is to destroy Metal Gear itself .

Bust out of there and get to theCommunications Tower .

Say something to take my mindoff the pain .

What can I say .

That's a tough one .

That's not a very happy topic for me .

I don't have any family .

By my own hand .

I had no idea .

There was no way you could .

It happened in Zanzibar 6 years ago .

Was Big Boss really your father .

That's what he said .

That's all I know .

That's the trauma that Mantis was talking about .

The onewe share in common .

Is that why you left FOX-HOUND .

Let's just say that I needed to be alone for a while and Alaskawas the perfect place .

I didn't have a real family either .

Just a bigbrother who put me through school .

We weren't even blood-relatedand he was much older than me .

You're still calling me friend .

Big Boss's most trusted lietenant and the only member of FOX-HOUNDto ever recieve the codename "Fox" .

I learned a lot from him .

But it was nothing personal .

And you still call yourselves friends .

War is no reason to end a friendship .

I first met him on the battlefield .

He was being held a prisonerof Outer Heaven .

But he didn't look like a prisoner to me .

Hewas always so cool and precise .

I was still green and he showedme the ropes .

You knew him well .

We never talked about our personal lives .

Sort of anunwritten rule .

We were fighting barehanded in a minefield .

I knowit sounds strange to most people .

But we were just two soldiersdoing our jobs .

It's like a sport .

Men and their games .

You're like wild animals .

I don't know .

It's your genes .

Why did you get intogenetic research anyway .

I never knew who my parents were or even what they looked like .

Iguess I got into genetics because I wanted to figure out why I'mthe way I am .

So you studied about DNA .

Memory is stored in DNA .

We're not sure .

But we know that a person's genetic fate isdetermined just by the sequence of the four bases in their DNA .

So what about my fate .

I have no idea .

I have a favor to ask .

I need your help .

I was wondering when you'd ask .

What should I do .

I've been captured .

I'm locked up here in this cell .

There's a big torture machine nearby .

I'll be there right away .

Is that how you ask a guy a favor .

Those bastards .

This lock won't open up with a security card .

So what are you doing here then .

I thought you might be hungry .

It's a hankerchief .

I got it from Sniper Wolf .

Sounds like Stockholm Syndrome to me .

I was taking care of the dogs here .

But Sniper Wolf stopped them .

Please don't hurt her .

Wake up you idiot .

She's the one who shot Meryl .

They're planning to launch a nuke .

I've got to stop them .

Then you'll have to get past the Communications Tower .

That guard's got the key .

You'll have to take him out .

Gimme a break .

I'm no soldier .

I can't take anybody out .

I'll be killed .

He's coming back .

I am a rookie after all .

It's me they want .

The sniper'susing me for bait to lure you out .

I can't reach it by myself .

I wouldn't slow you down .

I want to help you .

Quiet down .

Save your strength .

But war is ugly .

Saveyourself .

Go on living and don't give up on people .

Don't forgetme .

I wasn't able to protect her .

She joined up of her own free will .

I'm sure she was prepared forthis .

Meryl thought she had to become a soldier .

She said she thought it woul;d bring her closer to herdead father .

She said that .

She wasn't ready for real combat .

I shouldn't have pushed her sohard .

It's all my fault .

Don't kick yourself .

It doesn't suit a legend likeyou .

Meryl would say the same thing .

There aren't many women like her around .

That's not what I meant .

She's the Colonel's niece .

This is like a police interrogation .

I guess it's in the genes .

I think Naomisaid he rose as high as assisstant secretary in the FBI duringEdgar Hoover's time .

Mygrandfather was already dead by the time I learned about him .

Inever even had the chance to meet him .

You're not going any farther .

It's a long way down .

If only I had a rope .

I should be able touse that rope I got .

What are you going to do .

Take on a Hind with your bare hands .Now you're mine .

Don't shoot .

It's me . Don't shoot .

How'd you get here .

I'm afraid ofheights .

I was riding in the back of their truck .

How did you get up here .

The 1st floor of the circular staircase was destroyed .

That's why I took the elevator .

The elevator was working .

It's why I followedyou up this far .

That's what you came to ask .

I was wondering if even soldiers fall in love .

What are you trying to say .

I wanna ask you .

Do you think love can bloom even on a battlefield .

I think so too .

I have a favor to ask .

It'll be easy .

I don't want you to either .

The elevator is stopped down there .

I want you to get it to move .

Can you fix it .

It was working before .

I've got to go and swat a noisy fly .

I'll stay here and hold the fort .

You really look like hell .

I just pretendlike I'm not here .

Then I'm not scared .

I'm counting on you .

So the Snake's finally come out of his hole .

Are you ready now .

Why are you calling me brother .

Who the hell are you .

I'm your shadow .

Ask the father that you killed . I'll send you to hell to meet him .

See you in hell .

That takes care of the cremation .

It just moved by itself .

It's headedyour way now .

I just want to make sure again .

This is the way to get towhere Metal Gear is being stored .

The entrance to the underground maintenance base is towardsthe back of the snowfield ahead .

Find a safe place to hide out for a while .

You don't have to tell me .

And stay outta my way .

Don't try to be a hero or anything .

There were five stealth camouflage prototypes in my lab .

This isn't first grade math class .

The four suits were missing .

It was like someone was intentionally holding it .

That's another thing that bothered me about it .

The warning wentoff and I know I couldn't be over the limit .

How much do you weigh .

About 135 .

But that elevator had a weight limit of 650 pounds .

It would take at least five people to go over that limit .

There were only five .

What are you talking about .

Someone's aiming at me .

Yes it's her .

You sound like you're happy .

No I'm not .

So then what is it .

Are you insane .

She's a good person . You'd know that if you talked to her .

She's a merciless killer .

I can see you perfectly from here .

I'd never quitthe hunt .

Now you're mine .

Don't get between a wolf and its prey .

You're pretty good if you can hit me in this storm .

Women naturally make better soldiers .

Can't you sense me near you .

It's a mistake for a sniper to reveal her location .

It's a bullet straight from my gun toyour heart .

Now I'm gonna pay you back for Meryl .

You men are so weak .

You can never finish what you start .

I am a sniper .

Never moving a muscle .

I am lung-shot .

I am a Kurd .

I have always dreamed of a peaceful place like this .

So that's why you're called Wolf .

I was born on a battlefield .

Raised on a battlefield .

Hunted like dogsday after day .

I'd stare at the morning sun .

The governments of the worldturned a blind eye to our misery .

I became a sniper .

I watched the brutality .

I joined thisgroup of revolutionaries .

I have shamed myself and my people .

I am no longer thewolf I was born to be .

Wolves are noble animals .

They're not like dogs .

They call mercenaries like us "Dogs of War" .

But you'redifferent .

You're no dog .

I don't kill for sport .

You'll die as the proud wolf you are .

I wasn't waiting to kill people .

I waswaiting for someone to kill me .

A man like you .

You're a hero .

She's part of me .

Everyone's here now .

But Icouldn't save her .

What are you doing .

Returning it to it's owner .

I don't need a hankercheif .

I don't have any more tears to shed .

I'm going to the underground base .

We're out of time .

You'll have to protect yourself now .

Don't trust anyone .

We might not meet again .

I'll hang onto my Codec .

I wanna keep helping .

You can leave any time .

What am I fighting for .What are you fighting for .

Is this conversation secure .

The monitor's off .

I didn't know that .

What's your point .

Hunter's story about her background .

And then going undercover to investigate the mafia in New York .

It was all a big lie .

What did you say .

It was really bothering me .

Why would she lie about it .

She might be a spy .

Even a high school student could see past it .

Well back then there wasn't a single Asian investigator .

They first started in 1960 .

You better check it out .

Are you saying that Naomi might be behind it .

I don't know .

Either that or she's working with the terrorists .

This is the end of the road for you .

Right myfriends .

Ravens aren't scavengers like most peoplethink .

They are simply returning to the natural world that whichis no longer needed .

Sometimes they even attack wounded foxes .

You were the one in the M1 tank .

Must have been a tight fit fora big boy like you .

Ha ha ha ha ha .

But that was no true battle .

The ravens and I were testing to see what kind of man you were .

The ravens say you are a true warrior .

I can't move .

The Raven has put the mark of death upon you .

Blood from the eastflows within your veins .

Inuit and Japanese are cousins toeach other .

I don't have any crows in my family tree .

You jest but indeed ravens and snakes are not the best of friends .

You live in Alaskatoo .

You know of the World Eskimo-Indian Olympics .

You must be a real threat in the "Muk-Tuk"eating contest .

But there is another event that I excel at .

It iscalled the "Ear Pull" .

It is an event where two opponents pulleach other's ear while enduring the harsh cold .

It testsspiritual as well as physical strength .

You want to pull each other's ears .

This isn't glorious .

It's just plain killing .

Violence isn't asport .

Just as the Boss said .

But my body will not remain in this place .

My spirit and myflesh will become one with the ravens .

In that way I will returnto Mother Earth who bore me .

It wil open that door .

You are a snake which was not created by Nature .

Go and do battle with him .

I will be watching fromabove .

The man who you saw diebefore your eyes .

That was not the DARPA Chief .

It was Decot Octopus .

A member ofFOX-HOUND .

He was a master of disguise .

He copied his subjectsdown to the blood .

So he drained the Chief's blood and took itinto himself .

But he wasn't able to decieve the Angel of Death .

The Angel of Death .

But why go to so much trouble .

That is the end of my hint .

You must solve the rest of the riddleyourself .

There is always an end to it .

But you are different .

What are you trying to say .

It's about Naomi .

Turn your monitor off .

She's taking a short nap .

So what is this aboutNaomi .

Maybe we'd better let the Colonel hear this too .

Naomi Hunter is not Dr .

Naomi Hunter at all .

There is an actual Dr .

But she's not the woman we know .

The real Noami Hunterdisappeared somewhere in the Middle East .

Our Naomi must havesomehow gotten her identification papers .

Then who is she really .

She must be some kind of .

A spy .

Are you saying she's with the terrorists .

But she is working forFOX-HOUND .

So you think she had a part in the uprising .

Or she could be working with some different group all together .

It couldn't be .

Place her under arrest .

She's betrayed us .

She needs to be arrested and interrogated tofind out who she's with .

What do you mean .

Have you let her in on some sort of vital secret or something .

Does this have anything to do with the mysterious deaths of theDARPA Chief or the ArmsTech president .

I have no idea .

You're hiding something .

Give me some time .

I'll try to get it out of her .

We've got to find out who she is and what she's doinghere .

I don't have any time left for you .

Did you find a good place to hide .

It looks like they've finishedgetting Metal Gear ready .

How do you know that .

I overheard them talking .

Where are you now .

Right in front of Metal Gear .

There's nobody here .

Maybe because they're all ready .

They said they even input the PALcodes .

What should I do .

All we can do is use the override system that President Baker toldyou about .

But I've only got one of the three keys .

Leave it to me .

You got some kind of plan .

I'm trying to accessBaker's private files .

Don't you need a password .

But there are ways .

Are you a hacker .

That describes me pretty well .

Does it look like you can get in .

I don't know yet .

I'll give it a try .

I'm counting on you .

It's me again .

How's it going .

I just got past his third security level .

He wasa pretty careful guy .

Do you think you'll break in soon .

I've never met a system I couldn't bust into .

You got past security .

I accessed the confidential Metal Gear file .

So what about the PAL override system that Baker talked about .

I haven't found it yet .

That's what I need to know .

The secret behind the new nuclear weapon .

It doesn't use fuel so it isn't considered a missile .

And that's not even the scariest thing aboutthis weapon .

I can't wait to hear this .

It's a stealth weapon .

You mean it won't show up on radar .

Why weren't they able to develope one until now .

Because of the missile's rocket propulsion system .

Soit can't be detected by any current ballistic missile detectionsystems .

An invisible nuclear warhead .

Totally impossible to intercept .

We learned that lesson in the Gulf War .

This thing could mean the end of the world .

It's the ultimate weapon .

The United States would be denounced bythe UN .

I won't make any excuses .

This new nuclear weapon .

You mean they ran a computer model .

They neededto get actual data to back up the simulation .

What were the results of the excercise .

It looks like it went better than they hoped for .

You'd think that data asimportant as that would be carefully recorded .

President Baker gave me an optical disc with all of thetest data .

Do you still have it .

The terrorists have replaced the dummy warhead with a real warhead .

So you think they can do it .

Did you find out how to override it yet .

It must be in a separate file .

We're counting on you .

I've entered the PAL codes and disengaged the safety device .

There's still no response from Washington .

It looks like we'll haveto show them that we mean business .

The new target is .

I'm sure neither you nor Mr .

There's nothing there .

It's a nuclear test site .

A nuclear test site .

But anuclear explosion at a test site can still be concealed from thepublic .

Meanwhile Washington will be worried about the retaliatorystrike from China .

That'll probably mean top secret talks between both countries'leaders .

What do you think that will do to the U .

Or the President's .

Washington won't be very happy when westart selling their own system to the highest bidders .

He will give in to our demands .

Big Boss's DNA and one billion dollars .

That money will be used to cure our genome soldiers as well .

I'malso including the FoxDie vaccine in our demands .

It killed Octopus and the ArmsTech president .

So it'strue that it affects older people first .

Mantis might not have beenaffected because he wore a mask .

Wolf wasn't infected either .

Perhaps due to those tranquilizersshe always took .

Something to do with the adrenaline level in the blood .

Or maybeit's just because this FoxDie was still experimental and theyhaven't worked out all the bugs yet .

He still has doubts about the ability of Metal Gear .

He said wecan talk after Metal Gear's test launch is successful .

He is a very prudent man .

There's nothing to worry about .

The Colonel wants Metal Gear andthe new nuclear weapon so bad he can taste it .

They need a nuclear weapon thatcan't be intercepted .

Metal Gear will allow them to gain firststrike capability over the rest of the world .

Their regular army is in shambles and they think they can restoretheir country's military power with nuclear weapons .

But he's the one who gave us the Hind and most of our other heavyfirepower .

He's got over a thousand soldiers under his command .

If we joinedforces we could put up quite a resistance here .

I'mworried about the men's morale .

An alliance with the Russians wouldboost that as well .

What are you saying .

We're not going anywhere .

We're going to dig in here .

We could still escape .

We've got the most powerful weapon ever made and we're about toally with Gurlukovich's forces .

Are you going to fight the whole world .

And what's wrong with that .

We can launch a nuclear warhead at anytarget on this planet .

A nuclear warhead invisible to radar .

I have no interest in the revival of Mother Russia .

Big Boss's dream .

No need to worry .

The DARPA Chief and the ArmsTech president areboth dead .

Does Snake know how the override system works .

Don't you know .

He didn't have any keys on him .

Then no one can stop Metal Gear now .

Want me to kill her .

She's Campbell's niece and Snake cares for her .

How's it going there .

They've finished inputting the PAL codes .

So how do we deactivatethem .

It can also be used to input the detonation codes .

And you can only use the keys once .

We don't have much time .

I've only got one of them .

Hold on a minute .

Y'see that's the trick .

You already have allthree keys .

What are you talking about .

The card key is made of a shape memory alloy .

It's a material that changes shape at different temperatures .

The card key changes shape at different temperatures .

So this key is actually three keys in one .

Can you see the input terminals in the center of the ControlRoom .

Those three laptop terminals are for the emergency input .

Thereshould be a symbol on each screen .

Each symbol corresponds to adifferent key .

Input the keys in order from left to right .

Theleft one's for the room temperature key .

Next tothat goes the low temperature key .

The one on the right is thehigh temperature key .

All you do is insert the card keys .

But here's the thing .

You can onlyuse the key three times .

It's an emergency system and it's onlymeant to be used once .

Who's that .

PAL code number one confirmed .

Awaiting PAL code number two .

PAL code number two confirmed .

Awaiting PAL code number three .

It's about Naomi Hunter .

Then you should talk to the Colonel .

He's looking into it .

Turn your monitor off .

Okay it's off .

No one else can hear us .

I've got a good friend in the Pentagon .

He's the one who told me about it .

It looks like the DIA recentlydeveloped a new type of assassination weapon .

It's some kind of virus that targets specific people .

What are you trying to say .

It's too similar .

What is .

The cause of death .

You're telling me that Naomi was behind it .

Did Naomi give you some kind of injection .

I'm not sure .

But he still hasn't questioned her .

I'll ask him myself .

I just placed Naomi under arrest .

She was sending coded messages towards the Alaskan base .

I'm afraid so .

She's being interrogated now .

What kind of interrogation .

Call me if you find out anything .

That means the Fox Die vaccine must be around somewhere .

I've got bigger things to worry about .

All I can do is leave it up to the Colonel .

Campbell and the others are busy right now .

But not everything I said was a lie .

I don't know myself .

Ibought all my identification .

But my reason for getting intogenetics was true .

I want to know where I came from .

I was found in Rhodesia sometime in the 80's .

What's now known as Zimbabwe .

Rhodesia was owned by England until 1965 and there were lotsof Indian laborers around .

Isn't it enough tounderstand who you are now .

Understand who I am now .

No one else tries tounderstand me .

I was alone for so long .

I was half-dead from starvation and he shared his rationswith me .

He'smy one connection .

And he brought you back to America .

I was in Mozambique when "he" came .

Who is "he" .

But then heand my brother went back to Africa to continue the war .

And that'swhen it happened .

You killed my benefactor and sent my brotherhome a cripple .

I vowed revenge and joined FOX-HOUND .

I knew itwas my best chance to meet you and I prayed for the day that Iould .

So were your prayers answered .

I waited two long years .

Is that all you cared about .

You were all I thought about fortwo long years .

Do you still hate me .

I was partly wrong about you .

What about Liquid and the others .

I'll have my revenge on them too .

The one thatused Gray Fox for his genome experiments .

Afterwards I covered it up and helpedhim hide out .

I think he just came here to fight you .

A final battlewith you .

I'm sure of it .

FoxDie is a type of retrovirus that targets andkills only specific people .

They're programmed to respond to specificgenetic patterns in the cells .

Those enzymes recognize the target's DNA .

The heart cells suffer a shock and undergo an extreme apoptosis .

Do Istill have time .

ButI can't go yet .

I still have a job to do .

I'm not the one who made the decision to useFoxDie .

You weren't .

You were injected with FoxDie as a part of this operation .

I justwanted to let you know that .

Naomi's been removed from this operation .

What happened to Naomi .

What did she mean when she said thatFoxDie was a part of this operation .

I won't .

She's under arrest .

Right now your job is to stop Metal Gear .

PAL code number two conirmed .

Awaiting PAL code number three .

Next comes PAL numberthree .

PAL code number three confirmed .

PAL code entry complete .

Now the detonation code is completed .

Nothing canstop Metal Gear now .

You found the key and even activated the warhead for us too .

Ireally must express my gratitude .

Sorry to have involved you inthat silly shape memory alloy business .

We weren't able to learnthe DARPA Chief's code .

Then Ocelot accidentally killed him duringthe interrogation .

What do you mean .

That'swhen we decided .

So I had DecoyOctopus disguise himself as the DARPA Chief .

Unfortunately Octopusdidn't survive the encounter .

You mean you had this planned from the beginning .

Just to get me toinput the detonation code .

Who the hell are you .

Their ace-in-the-hole is useless now .

Ace-in-the-hole .

The Pentagon's plan to use you was already successful .

Who are you anyway .

I'll tell you everything you want to know .

Master Miller's body was just discovered at his home .

He's beendead for at least three days .

I didn't know because my Codec linkwith Master was cut off .

But Mei Ling said his transmission signalwas coming from inside the base .

So who is it .

You'd point a weapon at your ownbrother .

Why did you disguise yourself as Master .

So I could manipulate you more easily .

And you performed quite wellI must say .

Although the boys at the Pentagon are probably sayingthe same thing .

What the hell are you talking about .

Following orders blindly with no questions asked .

It was alljust a diversion .

The Pentagon only needed for you to come into contact with us .

You don't mean .

You were sent in here to kill us so they couldretrieve Metal Gear undamaged along with the bodies of the genomesoldiers .

Fox Die .

They thought she was .

But it seems that Dr .

Naomi Hunter couldn'tbe controlled so easily .

We've got a spy working in the Pentagon .

He reported that Dr .

But I had no idea she was motivated by such pettyrevenge .

It doesn't matter .

I've already added the FoxDievaccine to my list of White House demands .

There's a vaccine .

But that woman is the only one who really knows .

It's true that theArmsTech president and Decoy Octopus were killed by FoxDie .

A bug in the virus' programming .

So it's true .

You got all theold man's dominant genes .

The only reason I exist is so they could create you .

That's right . I'm just the leftovers of what they used to make you .

Some warpedkind of love .

You killedour father with your own hands . You stole my chance for revenge .Now I'll finish the work that father began .

I will surpass him .

You're just like Naomi .

Well I'm not like you .

Consider it an honor .

How do I stop it .

Did that do it .

A name from long ago .

It sounds better than Deepthroat .

So it is you .

You haven't aged well .

I'll send you back to hell .

What do you want from me .

I'm a prisoner of Death .

Only you can free me .

She's hell bent ontaking revenge for you .

You're the only one who can stop her .

Because I'm the one who killed her parents .

I was young then andcouldn't bring myself to kill her too .

I felt so bad that I decidedto take her with me .

I raised her like she was my own blood tosoothe my guilty conscience .

Even now she thinks of me as herbrother .

Tell her for me .

Tell her that I was the onewho did it .

We're just about out of time .

Here's a final present fromDeepthroat .

I'll stop it from moving .

How strong is that exoskeleton of yours .

A cornered fox is more dangerous than a jackal .

He destroyed the radome .

You are indeed worthy of the codename "Fox" . But nowyou're finished .

Can you really shoot .

You'll kill him too .

Now in front of you .

I can finally die .

At leastI always fought for what I believed in .

He prayed for death .

Youcan't protect anyone . Not even yourself . Die .

I won't die .

It looks like your revolution was a failure .

Just because you've destroyed Metal Gear doesn't mean I'm donefighting .

What are you really after .

A world here warriors like us are honored as we once were .

That was Big Boss's fantasy .

We were valued then .

We're losing ourplace in a world that no longer needs us .

A world that now spurnsour very existence .

You should know that as well as I do .

Father knew what type of abalance was best .

Is that the only reason .

Isn't it reason enough .

For warriors such as us .

I don't want that kind of world .

Why do you continue tofollow your orders while your superiors betray you .

Why did youcome here .

I'll tell you then .

Are you dnying it .

Haven't you already killed most of my comrades .

I watched your face when you did it .

It was filled with the joy ofbattle .

There's a killer inside you .

You don't have to deny it .

We werecreated to be that way .

That's what theproject was called .

It started in the 1970's .

Their plan was toartificially create the most powerful soldier possible .

The personthat they chose as the model was the man known then as the greatestliving soldier in the world .

But father was wounded in combat and already in a coma when theybrought him in .

So they created us from his cells .

Then they transferred the clonesto someone's uterus and later intentionally aborted six of thefetuses to encourage strong fetal growth .

You and I wereoriginally octuplets .

The other six of our brothers were sacrificed to make us .

Wewere accomplices in murder before the day we were even born .

So itwas you and I .

Two fertilized eggs with exactly the same DNA .

They used me as a guinea pig . Tocreate a phenotype in which all of the dominant genes wereexpressed .

I got all of the recessive genes .

You took everything from me before I was even born . But .

But they're different .

With thecompletion of the Human Genome project the mysteries of humanitywere laid bare .

That’s how they became the Genome Soldiers .

That’sright .

The Genome Soldiers .

Theytoo are the product of numerous sacrifices .

The military secretly injected soldiers withthe soldier genes .

Everyone knows that the Gulf War Syndrome was caused byexposure to depleted uranium used in anti-tank rounds .

That was just a cover story issued by the Pentagon .

The poison gas detection units and theanti-sarin injections .

They were all just a cover up of this secretgenetic experiment .

They too our are brothers and sisters .

So the Genome Soldiers mean that the experiments were a success .

Don’t be a fool . They’re a complete failure . We’re on theverge of extinction .

Have you ever heard of the Asymmetry Theory .

Nature tends to favorasymmetry .

Those species which have gone extinct all show signs ofsymmetry .

The Genome Soldiers suffer from the same problem .

We are all on the verge of death at the genetic level .

We don't know when or what type of disease will occur .

You want Big Boss's DNA so you can save your family .

It's very touching .

And yetthey help each other to survive .

Do you know why .

It increases thechance that their genes will be passed on to a new generation .

You're telling me that your genes are ordering you to save theGenome Soldiers .

You can't fight your genes .

All living things are bornfor the sole purpose of passing on their parents' genes .

That'swhy I'll follow what my genes tell me .

And then I'm going to gobeyond .

In order to break the curse of my heritage .

I'm not sure .

She was alive a few hours ago .

Poor girl kept callingyour name .

Falling in love with a man who doesn't even have aname .

I have a name .

As soon as we finished our business .

We're almost out of time .

They won't even need aBDA (battle damage assessment) .

If you want the details why don'tyou ask your precious Colonel Campbell .

What is the Pentagon trying to do .

The Secretary of Defense has taken over active control of thisoperation .

He's on his way there by AWACS .

To bomb the place .

B-2 Bombers just lifted off from Galena AirforceBase .

They're carrying B61-13 surface- piercing tactical nuclearbombs .

Metal Gear is destroyed .

Tell the Secretary of Defense .

The Secretary of Defense heard that Naomi double-crossed us andhe's worried about Fox Die .

He's going to drop a nuclear bomb to vaporize all the evidencealong with anyone who knows anything .

I'll stop the nuclear strike .

If I issue an order to delay the strike .

Meryl was transferred to this basejust before the terrorist attack .

They forced me to cooperate in exchange for her life .

It's the least I can do for you after all the lies .

I'm ordering them to cancel the bombing run .

After that there's noturning back .

Roy Campbell has been relieved of duty .

Put the Colonel back on .

He's been placed under arrest for leaking top-secret informationand for the crime of high treason .

He truly believed that he was incommand of this operation .

There won't be a speck of evidence left .

I'm sure the Presidentwould want the same thing .

The President ordered this .

The President is a busy man .

I have complete authority here .

How do you plan on explaining a nuclear attack on Alaska to themedia .

We've prepared a convincing cover story .

We'll simplysay that the terrorists exploded a nuclear device .

You'll be murdering everyone here .

So you didn't mean to kill the DARPA Chief after all .

He was my friend .

And you could care less about what happens to everybody else .

What are you talking about .

Metal Gear's test data . Donald was supposed to bring it back .

I don't have it .

Oh well that's okay .

You two are an embarrassment from the1970's .

You can’t be allowedto live .

I gave into my pain .

Isold your life to save my oen .

I'm a loser .

I'm not the heroyou thought I was .

I'm nothing .

Forgive me .

Meryl can't forgive anyone anymore .

What the hell do you know .

But death is not defeat .

That's what Hemmingwaysaid .

I lost Wolf too .

But that wasn't defeat .

She and I willbe together forever .

We didn't lose anything .

It's true that Wolf is dead .

There's a parking garage right next door .

Wecan get to the surface from there .

I released all thesecurity locks .

It'll be okay .

You have my wordon it .

I'm through regreting the past .

Life isn't all about loss y'know .

It's started .

Those guys .

But theycan't destroy the human spirit .

Let's go .

Maybe Ican prove myself to you after all .

You'll freeze like that .

Now you look like yourself again .

It's no use .

What happened to Liquid .

What happened to the air raid .

No stealth bombers in sight .

The Secretary of Defense has been arrested .

I was able to get into contact with the President .

What happened to the air raid and the nuclear strike .

The orders were rescinded .

The F117s and the B2 Spirits havereturned to the base .

Washington isn't stupid enough to use nukes to cover up a fewsecrets .

I wonder about that .

Meryl was my daughter .

I didn't find out until recently .

I got a letter from hermother .

I was going to tell her afterthis operation was over .

I kept alot of things from you .

Oh that's right .

I've got a present for you .

There's a snowmobile close to you .

MeiLing saw it on the satellite photos .

This time of the year theglaciers are pretty calm .

You should be able to ride right out ofthere .

I'll bet the boys at the DIA and the NSA never expected youto come home alive .

I better not show my face around here .

No danger of that .

You two officially died after your jeep sankinto the ocean .

That's not too far from the truth .

Also there's a helicopter waiting for you on Fox Island .

Are you going to be okay .

I've got an insurance policy .

The battery on these nanomachines will run out soon .

They won't beable to follow us .

I guess we won't meet again .

I'll pay you a visit sometime .

I'll look forward to that .

Meryl will be fine .

She wasn't included in its programming .

Naomi said that she wants to talk to you face to face about that .

Mei Ling's with her right now .

I'm switching over toNaomi .

He also said he'll always love you .

He fought with every ounceof strength in his body .

He wasn't reallymy brother anymore .

Ever since he fought with you in Zanzibarhe's been like a ghost .

A ghost looking for a place to die .

When am Igonna go .

That's up to you .

What do you mean .

Everybody dies when their time's up .

It's up to you how you use the time left to you .

Each person is born with their fate written into their own geneticcode .

But that's not all thereis to life .

I finally realized that .

I told you before .

The reasonthat I was interested in genes and DNA .

Because I wanted to knowwho I was .

I didn't find anything .

I didn't learn anything .

The most we can say about DNA is that it governs aperson's potential strengths .

You mustn'tallow yourself to be chained to fate .

I'm going to choose life too .

Living is a link to the future .

That's howall life works .

I finally realized it .

The truemeaning of life .

Survival has been theonly thing I cared about in my life .

That's not just you .

That's how everyone is .

I only felt truly alive when I was staring Death in the face .

I want to enjoy life .

I feel like a new man .

So what are you going to do .

I'm interested in humanpsychology            now .

The whole reason I got into science in the first place was becauseI was no good with people .

I was scared of them .

I was scared oflife .

I thought that I could never understand them because they'reso illogical .

But I've finally learned how to like people .

I'mnot afraid anymore .

You and I are more alike than I thought .

I'm just tired of always being a spectator in life .

I'm ready tolive .

I'm gonna stand on my own two feet .

I'm not gonna hideanymore .

You're giving up your stealth camo .

You can have it .

I'd rather do it myself .

That's a good one .

Ha haha ha ha .

Maybe we should take a trip to Jupiter .

I think it's time for me to look for a new path in life .

Will you find it .

I'll find it .

I know I'll find it .

You mustn’t allowed yourself to be chained to fate .

Humans can choose the type of life they want to live .

The entire unit was wiped out .

Those two are stillalive .

FoxDie should become activatedsoon .

I recovered all of Rex's dummy warhead data .

Nobody knows who I really am .

Yes the DARPAChief knew my identity but he's been disposed of .

Good-bye .

Is that all you can say .

It wasn't that bad .

I didn't give in to the torture .

I was fighting too .

You're a strong woman .

I felt like you werethere with me .

It gave me the strength to go on .

But I was scared .

Don't say that .

But it made me realize something .

During all thepain and shame there was one thing I was sure of .

And that hope kept me alive .

I got some bad news too .

We're about to be bombed .

I guess we're considered expendable .

Is there a way out of here .

You can take the loading tunnel to thesurface .

There's a parking garage right next to you .

The tunnelleads from there to the surface .

The door in front .

It's a small entrance to the west of that door .

How about the security .

I just unlocked it .

Who do you think you're talking to .

I'll takecare of security along your escape route too .

What are you going to do .

I'll stay here .

I need a little more time to take care of your escape route .

Unlocking the security doors is difficult work .

Only I can do it .

I'm staying here .

It's my own decision .

It won't hold .

I'm through regretting the past .

I've found a reason to live .

Don't die on me .

Okay I gotta go .

I promise I'll do something about your escaperoute .

Let's get the hell out of here .

Where is Otacon .

With his old self .

He's fighting for us too .

I must be heavy .

It looks like we're not gonna have a love scene after all .

Let's get out of here .

You need some clothes .

There's my Sneaking Suit .

It's no good .

I can't move .

What happened to Liquid .

I can't see him either .

What happened to the air raid .

No Stealth bombers in sight .

The Secretary of Defense has been arrested .

I was able to get into contact with the President .

What happened to the air raid and the nuclear strike .

The orders were rescinded .

The F117s and the B2 Spirits havereturned to the base .

Washington isn't stupid enough to use nukes to cover up a fewsecrets .

I wonder about that .

I kepta lot of things from you .

Oh that's right .

I've got a present for you .

There's a snowmobile close to you .

MeiLing saw it on the satellite photos .

This time of the year theglaciers are pretty calm .

You should be able to ride right out ofthere .

I'll bet the boys at the DIA and the NSA never expected youto come home alive .

I better not show my face around here .

No danger of that .

You two officially died after your jeep sankinto the ocean .

That's not too far from the truth .

Also there's a helicopter waiting for you on Fox Island .

Hal Emmerich should be somewhere on the base .

I want someoneto bring him in .

Leave it to me .

Are you going to be okay .

I've got an insurance policy .

The battery on these nanomachines will run out soon .

They won't beable to follow us .

I guess we won't meet again .

I'll pay you a visit sometime .

I'll look forward to that .

Meryl will be fine .

She wasn't included in its programming .

Naomi said that she wants to talk to you face to face about that .

Mei Ling's with her right now .

I'm switching over to Naomi .

He also said he'll always love you .

He fought with every ounceof strength in his body .

He wasn't reallymy brother anymore .

Ever since he fought with you in Zanzibarhe's been like a ghost .

A ghost looking for a place to die .

When am Igonna go .

That's up to you .

What do you mean .

Everybody dies when their time's up .

It's up to you how you use the time left to you .

Each person is born with their fate written into their own geneticcode .

But that's not all thereis to life .

I finally realized that .

I told you before .

The reasonthat I was interested in genes and DNA .

Because I wanted to knowwho I was .

I didn't find anything .

I didn't learn anything .

The most we can say about DNA is that it governs aperson's potential strengths .

You mustn'tallow yourself to be chained to fate .

I'm going to choose life too .

Living is a link to the future .

That's howall life works .

I finally realized it .

The truemeaning of life .

Let's keep it .

A reminder of a successful mission or the first time wemet .

A reminder of how to live .

That's not just you .

That's how everyone is .

I only felt truly alive when I was staring Death in the face .

What do your genes say about your future now .

Maybe it's time I live for someone else .

Maybe that's the real way to live .

My name is David .

I think it's time we look for a new path in life .

Will we find it .

We'll find it .

I know we'll find it .

It'llbe spring here soon .

Spring brings new life to everything .

It's a time for hope .

But Alaska has never looked morebeautiful .

I think I'm gonna like this new life .

Let's enjoy life .

You mustn’t allowed yourself to be chained to fate .

Humans can choose the type of life they want to live .

The entire unit was wiped out .

Those two are still alive .

I recovered all of Rex's dummy warhead data .

Nobody knows who I really am .

The inferior one was the winner after all .

It takes a well-balanced individual .

No one knows thatyou were the third one .

I'll keep her under surveillance .

Good-bye .

We had classified intelligencethat a new type of Metal Gear was being transported .

Our boy is right on schedule .

He'll know soon enough .

Everything's going okay .

The stealth camo's busted .

We must have overused it .

You're not in the military anymore .

I didn't plan on relying on this gadget anyway .

I'm happy as long as no one gives me any more unwanted gifts .

You mean that thing with Naomi .

And I can't say I miss the chattering nanny .

Mei Ling's not so bad .

She's better off assuming it's sooner and quit whileshe's safe .

You know the technicalspecs of Metal Gear were sold on the black market after ShadowMoses .

All Ocelot's doing .

Not exactly a classified weapon for today's nuclear powers .

This new one seems to have been designed to wipe the floor withall the other models .

That explains why this one is under Marine Corps jurisdiction .

We need to find outwhere the tanker is headed .

A little reconnaissance .

There's too much we don't know about this new prototype .

I'll head to the bridge ASAP .

Try to avoid confrontations .

Our goal is to collect evidence on Metal Gear development and expose it to the world .

It would bebest if you could get out of there without alerting anyone .

I know the drill  we're not terrorists .

Your weapon is a tranquilizergun converted from a Beretta M92F .

M9 .

It's a little hard to work with because you have to reload aftereach shot since the slide locks .

It's better than scavenging on mission site .

The chemical stun will take affect in a few seconds and last forhours .

You can take down a elephant with that thing .

Check outthe laser sighting too .

The affects of the anesthetic rounds will vary depending on whattarget the body hits .

Were talking about a difference of tens ofseconds between hitting the enemy's chest or head .

As for the equipment .

What's wrong withyou .

It's kind of a lucky charm .

He's the digital camera .

Works almost the same as your old one .

They don't look armed .

Don't get caught; you're in stealth mode here .

Hacked it out of Pentagon's classified files myself .

I'm too good for that .

We can't rule out the possibility that this is a trap .

You're just paranoid .

They don't seem anything but civilians from here .

With all the ships passing on the river and in the harbor .

Peoplecan get a clear view of the water from riverside too .

The waterline is too high .

That's SOP for Counter-terror ops too .

You worry too much .

Where's the target .

Satellite surveillance is a major international pastime thesedays .

Do you seethe entrance to the holds .

Looks like there are a few entry ways into the crew quarters .

Looks like were not the only ones after Metal Gear tonight .

Is that a chopper I just heard .

What's their game .

They're probably targeting the ship's controls .

The ship is run by a computer so .

I'd say about 18 people .

Snake takes a look at one of the soldier's weapons .

AKS-74u .

No Marine barber touched that head of hair .

I'm transmitting the photo .

Let's try to get a ID on him ASAP .

I'm on it .

Looks like the tanker's theirs now .

KA-60 .

We need to get a fix on who they are .

I'll do my best .

This isn't like Shadow Moses .

Reach me if anything happens .

How can I check in and save my progress .

I'll do it .

Sorrybut no Mei Ling this time .

Call me on the Codec when you want tosave .

I'll be waiting just past the Verrazano Bridge .

You need to beoff that ship by then .

I'll be in touch .

So it is the Kasatka .

So the prototype is ready for solotesting  it's basically combat-worthy .

I'm on my way to the tanker holds .

Infraredsensors placed and operational .

Are the explosives in place .

And the vehicle's pilot .

He's the only one who underwent the VR training .

No one else cando it .

Are you sure you can trust him .

Your part in the mission is complete .

You are to leave at once .

I can see the moon .

I have abad feeling about this mission .

This is a country of liberty .

I have nowhere else to go .

Hands over your head . Now .

Toss your gun overboard . Slowly .

You men  you're all the same .

I'm a nomad too .

What else do you have there .

Take the knife and toss it .

Toss it overboard . Hold that position .

You know what you're doing .

It's stopped raining .

And that brings our tour to its conclusion .

Scout knife with a surprise  you a Spetsnaz .

I think you deserve a little credit .

No one's ever dodged thatshot of mine .

I've been on the unit since I was born .

I grew up on thebattlefield .

Conflict and victory were my parents .

We've shared everything  all the bad and allthe good .

I have no one  nothing except the unit .

I know who they are .

We've ID'd the old man .

They're after Metal Gear .

This is not going to be as simple as wethought .

You could say that .

A Marine Cypher-T .

Snake  There's something I have to tell you .

We didn't dig up this info  about the new Metal Gear  on ourown .

It was a tip .

You've never trusted those  why would you start now .

I have a younger sister .

I only knew her for two years .

You've never mentioned her before .

The sender of the tip was "E .

There's reallyno one there who knows about her .

When was the last time you saw her .

Over 10 years ago .

You think it's a trap .

To lure us out her .

I don't know .

Maybe I screwed up .

I've got a light-equipped USP; I can take them on now .

I'll findthose somewhere around here .

Don't raise too much racket with that thing .

I'm not in the mood to go sleep with the fishes .

There are toomany sensors .

Looks like I'll have to find another way .

No need to worry .

There's a way through .

Take a close look  doyou see the thing with blinking green lights right next to theexplosives .

That's the control unit for the sensors .

Destroy thatand the sensors stop functioning .

But the M9'sknockout rounds won't work .

The USP you picked up should do thetrick .

Verrazano Bridge checkpoint passed .

You are ordered to continue manningyour posts until that time .

The lift is also under our control .

We're on the foredeck .

About to descend to the holds .

We will complete the preparations before the end of the speech .

All communications to the holds have been severed .

No one isaware of our presence .

Let no one down into the holds until we are out .

There is one more thing .

Why are you here .

We thought you were with the Colonel .

Have you made it to the holds .

It's taking longer than I expected .

We've already passed theVerrazano Bridge .

We'll use another recovery point .

They may be planning to change course .

The exits to the deck are all sealed .

What are they planning .

The men down here are definitely Marines .

I'm not interested in fighting these guys .

The weapons won't dome much good here .

Can you see Metal Gear .

I'll have to go around to the bow .

They have some seriousdefenses here .

I doubt the recent arrivals want to blast theirway through the Marines either .

Wonder where they're headed .

I don't know .

There should be a "MARINES" insignia on the body of Metal Gear .

There's actually one little thing .

Just spit it out .

I'm used to things going wrong .

It looks like someone's monitoring our transmission .

I don't have a clue .

All they're doing is watching  it wouldcreep me out less if they tried to interfere with ourcommunications .

Could it have something to do with that Cypher we saw .

I've switched the encryption protocol for our bursttransmission for now .

Instead of using the Codec .

There's a workstation in the southeast corner of theblock where Metal Gear is housed .

I've made arrangements so thatyou can send the pictures from the machine .

I hitched a ride on Link 16 into U .

Managed to get into that workstation and overwrote apart of the system software so I could remote-install a littleapp I wrote .

Why bother with anything that complicated .

The data packetscan then masquerade as .

And one more thing .

How much time do I have .

I hacked into his personal files and took a look at the text ofthat speech .

I'd say you have seven more minutes  longer if hethrows in a joke or two .

A seven-minute time limit .

Butthat doesn't mean we can just let Metal Gear be hijacked .

We'll deal with the rest when we get there .

Metal Gear .

So this is the new Metal Gear .

And we're going to show the whole world its baby pictures .

We need four images .

Send me something I can use .

We the Marines will lead the charge into a new world order withMetal Gear RAY .

Who the  .

Gift of the silver tongue  they say it's a mark of a goodofficer  and of a liar .

Americans are too in love with thesound of their own voice to speak the truth .

Several Marines rush to Dolph's side and train their sights on the intruder .

What do you want .

This machine will be quite useful .

What are you planning to do  steal this thing .

Nobody move . Understood .

This ship now carries enough SEMTEX on its key structural pointsto blow it out of the water  at the touch of this button .

We're almost at the target .

Get a move on .

What do you intend to do with RAY  sell it on the streets .

What are you talking about .

Is there a point to this sad story .

Not that you would understand .

What do you intend to do .

Russia will rise again  and RAY is the key .

I regret to inform you that I have no intention of selling MetalGear .

The La-li-lu-le-lo . How's that possible .

I'm glad you noticed comrade .

I abandoned "her" during the ColdWar .

You may yet make itto shore if you swim for your life .

You know who I am .

You're drowning in time .

No wonder Naomi passed you over for the FOXDIE program .

Out  get out of my mind . Liquid .

The price of physical prodigy .

Few more years and you'll beanother dead clone of the old man .

Big Boss was in his late fifties when they created hiscopies .

You don't have what it takes after all .

I have photographicevidence of Snake on the scene .

The Cypher was most useful .

I would say theMarine Corps' plans are on indefinite hold .

Itdidn't take long for the government to put an oil fence aroundthe whole mess .

And then that massive offshore cleanup facilitywent up inside .

Do we have an ID .

It's a highly trained group and they have the Big Shellunder complete control .

Calling teams Alpha and Bravo .

Deploy at the Big Shell asscheduled .

What are their demands .

Thirty billion dollars .

What makes them think they can get thatmuch .

There was a government-sponsored tour going on at the Big Shellthat day .

The most important person .

That's not the worst-case scenario .

Is this a joint effort .

FOXHOUND remains a covert body .

Don't alert them to yourpresence  that is an order .

I am now inside Strut A of Shell 1 .

We're in luck .

Looks like there are no sentries posted here .

What's the visibility .

The lights on the plant's struts are functioning .

I won't have touse the IR goggles .

There was a brand-new hole cut through the oil fence .

There'ssomeone else besides me that wanted to get in badly .

That's not possible .

What about SEAL Team 10 .

They landed on the roof of the Big Shell as planned .

What's wrong with "Snake" .

You've already covered infiltration in VR Training .

I've completed three hundred missions in VR .

I feel like somekind of legendary mercenary .

Make sure nobody sees you .

When we need toreach you .

The Codec's receiver directlystimulates the small bones of your ear .

No one but you will beable to hear it .

I'll contact you if anything changes .

How do I get up to the next level .

There's an elevator at the far end of that area .

The texture isn't far removed fromrubber but the material protects against a wide range of toxicsubstances .

The suit itself has a wide array of built-in sensors .

There's a lot of pressure on my torso .

The suit applies varying pressure to major internal organsto maximize performance and safeguard their functions .

They callthis the "Skull Suit" in FOXHOUND .

Skull suit  seems appropriate somehow .

The hatch with a circular handle will open into the elevatorarea .

Locate the hatch first .

Moving onto main mission objectives .

AN-94 and a Makarov .

Must be a Gurlukovich man .

What's their stake in this one .

They must have made a deal  an arrangement with the terrorists .

That's not a possibility .

Not a team  looks like a solo job .

We need to get an ID .

Did you say "nerd" .

Use the node to gain access to the Big Shell's facilitiesnetwork .

Pull up the map of the structure; that'll let you activate theSoliton Radar .

Uses biological magnetic fields as input .

Theseestimated enemy positions are projected onto a map according toreference points collected via GPS signals and field personnelreports .

We need to get to the map through the Big Shell's nodeto put this data processing to practical use .

The node unit isabout three feet high and should be colored blue .

Each area hasat least one .

How do I gain access .

Just push the Action button in front of the node .

Complete theprocedure before those sentries gain consciousness .

The radar should be functioning now .

Remember your VR training sessions .

The tool is exactly the sameone  it maps the terrain as well as the position of enemypersonnel .

The reddots are your enemies and the blue cone shape represents theirfield of vision .

It getsjammed easily I'm afraid .

It's all made from currently existingtechnology .

You won't be able to use it in an area with strongharmonic resonance .

The Big Shell's layout mapshould now be available after touching the START button .

How do I save the mission data .

I've set aside a proprietary frequency for saves .

And an analystto work on the data too .

What are you doing here .

She'll be overseeing the datasaving and support .

The FOXHOUND analyst that was supposed to take part in thismission was in an accident .

Rosemary was brought in as areplacement .

She has our technical staff at her disposal .

She's never been a part of a field mission .

I know your VR training performance in and out .

But sometimesthat's not enough .

You're familiar with the Shadow Moses incident .

You know I covered it in VR .

I was trained to fight .

My personal feelings have no place in amission .

We've learned that it doesn't work that way .

You're stuck with me whether you like it or not .

You need someone to watch your back .

I'll perform my duties and save that mission data .

Jack is not simply a fieldpersonnel for me to track .

His handle is Raiden .

All right  Raiden .

Let me know when you're ready toturn in a save .

I just switched frequencies .

Do you know what day it is tomorrow .

April 30th  is there something special about it .

I can't remember .

Find somewhere to hide until the elevator arrives .

You must stayout of sight .

The name of their leader is Solid Snake .

The hero of Shadow Moses .

So that's why you changed my codename .

But it can't be THE Solid Snake .

Could he have survived .

Stay extra sharpuntil you can find a node to log in from .

What about the commandos .

SEAL Team 10 has landed on Struts B and C .

Seems he was spotted on Strut B .

The Big Shell is comprised of Shells One and Two .

Each unitconsists of a central core and six struts surrounding it .

So the whole thing is shaped like two hexagons connectedend-on-end .

Log into the network .

Do we really have no line of communication with the SEALs .

They don't know a thing about us .

Only a few people know aboutyour presence here .

There's no need for concern .

So we just listen in .

I'm patching it through .

This is Alpha Zero .

We have the President .

What about the package .

Tell the guys upstairs that we've secured the package .

Your retrieval is on the way .

H-holy .

This is Alpha Zero .

Damn it . I can't hit him .

You smell like .

Shoot him . What are you waiting for .

Are you all done cleaning up .

But wait till I tell you what I found .

I'll tell you in person .

I'm not a enemy .

My name is S .

My name is Pliskin .

Are you a Navy SEAL .

How did you get in .

Fast rope decent from a Navy chopper .

Have I seen you before .

FOX-HOUND was disbanded .

Where were you before FOX-HOUND .

I was a part of the Army's  Force XXI trials .

No  not really .

So this is your first .

I've had extensive training  the kind that's indistinguishablefrom the real thing .

But realistic in every way .

A virtual grunt of the digital age .

That's just great .

That's far more effective  than live exercises .

The only difference is that it isn't actually happening .

War as a video game what better way to raise the ultimate soldier .

So your saying VR training is some kind of mind control .

Raiden what's going on .

The Alpha team from Navy SEAL team 10 is dead .

The kid's wired with nanomachines .

What about the President .

Looks like they took him somewhere else .

You said there was a survivor from SEAL Team 10 .

Has he seen your face .

This is a top-secret mission .

No one can know that we'reinvolved .

It's a little too late for that .

What the hell .

Give me a few minutes .

Must have lost a few more pints then I thought .

What was that man just now .

That blood sucking freak .

The way he moved   didn't seem human .

One of the members of Dead Cell .

A special forces unit created by  Ex-President George Sears .

Thename was originally intended to reflect its anti-terroristfunctions .

Theywere needed to show VR troopers like you how to deal with thereal thing .

Began to go after U .

We estimate that no fewer than a hundred peopledied on accidents the Dead Cell arranged on their own .

They wereout of control  and it all  came to a head six months ago .

The unit was devastated .

There are only three left now   andyou just saw one of them .

Why would they go after the Big Shell .

How should I know .

I told you they were on the lunatic fringe .

What about the leader .

He says he's Solid Snake .

Snake died two years ago .

You mean the incident that made this Big Shell necessary in thefirst place .

And he was the one  that sank that tanker .

Legends are usually bad news .

There's not a lot of differencebetween heroes and madmen .

You're saying Snake is still alive and pulled another one .

His body was positively ID'dtwo years ago .

What about the other soldiers .

I saw Russian equipment too .

They're probably mercenaries .

The BigShell is too much ground for just Dead Cell members to holddown .

You weren't briefed on any of this .

What are you really doing here .

I don't smoke .

Come in Alpha Zero .

Come in all Alpha . This is Bravo Zero .

Aren't you going to answer him .

The B-C connecting bridge .

We need to get there .

Can you handle it .

I need a few more minutes .

I've been briefed on this plant's layout .

If you need informationabout the place or on Dead Cell contact me .

Makes up for the boring one my parents gave me .

Maybe I'll find out some day .

Don't you need to save the mission data .

Oh yeah  thanks for the reminder .

I'd rather you figure it out .

Tomorrow seems more  appropriate .

I need all the help I can getso that I won't chicken out anyway .

Is that the reason you decided to be part of this mission .

You know I'll do everything I can to help you .

It has todo with Solid Snake .

The leader of this takeover incident isclaiming that he's Snake himself .

I need as much data on him as possible .

Everything they have onhim after the Shadow Moses incident .

Should be a burial record somewhere too .

You should be ableto request top-level security clearance from the Colonel .

Thatshould get us into the most classified material .

I'm on it .

I'll contact you as soon as I find out something .

What the hell is that .

Nothing will hit her .

Is she the one they call Fortune .

Don't let them take the President .

A SEAL fires a grenade .

Today is another bad day .

Is there anyone here that can give me happiness .

I'm so sorry my beauties .

I'll see you again some day .

What happened to the cargo choppers .

Both of them are at the bottom of the harbor .

Looks like yournew hosts have a Harrier 2 .

It just means they anticipated the attack .

Are you saying that this was all a feint .

There's no time for questions .

They could decide to retaliate forthat failed assault .

You mean the hostages .

But we need to consider thepossibility that they'll blow the whole Shell .

The priority is now on removingthose C4's that the terrorists wired over the Big Shell .

That's not a problem  the Bravo team brought an explosives proin with them .

He was supposed to standby on Strut C according totheir mission .

You should find him there .

What are you talking about .

Get to Strut C and find him .

But I need to ask you something before I go .

And that vampire too .

It's  it'slike .

It's like being in a nightmare you can't wake up from .

And you Rose  I can't believe you're on this mission .

I keepthinking I'll wake up .

And that's why you won't wake up .

But nothing seems real .

I've made up my mind to stay with you .

And I won't let you be just a dream .

I'm not NYPD .

I came in with the Bravo Team .

Who are you with andwhat happened to SEAL Team 10 .

All of them .

Did I tell you could move .

What's your name .

Also consultant to the NYPDBomb Squad .

A poor old man who got dragged along for this picnic .

I thought you retired .

All I lost was this leg .

So your the bomb disposal guy .

Open any explosives disposaltextbook and you'll see his name .

Why did they bring you out of retirement then .

Because the terrorist group here includes one of my students .

The Emperor of Explosives  Fatman .

He built an atomic bomb whenhe was only ten .

I created him in a sense .

And that's why you're here .

I'm pretty rusty .

I was supposed to supervise the bomb disposallooks like it was taken care of before I had my turn .

I wouldn't say that .

There are at least two people here that canclaim to be experts at bomb disposal .

Are you two with SEAL Team 10 .

I didn't see you at the missionbriefing .

Don't worry about me .

And he looks young but he can do it .

Butwe need more manpower .

What's your name .

That's a odd name .

There was also a engineer with us .

He went in with us .

I haven't seen him since that skirmish .

I don't think so .

I didn't find his body .

They told me he was the security systems architect for the BigShell .

Why would they take a civilian along .

Everything in this structure is computer-controlled .

He wassupposed to get us past all the security measures .

I never heard anything about that .

He had official orders with him .

We'll leave that for later .

But there's no one left from the SEAL's EOD (Explosive OrdnanceDisposal) squad .

So we have to do it ourselves .

But I've never defused a bomb before .

Hold on a sec .

Off to confer with the CO again .

Glad to hear Stillman is safe .

Assist him in any way possible toclear the C4 from the structure .

It's all right .

The man you're working with is the best in thefield .

All you have to do is follow his directions .

You will ofcourse keep your identity and mission objectives to yourself .

Is it true that an engineer came in with Stillman .

I wasn't informed of that .

It's probably something the SEALsdecided on their own .

The enemy may retaliate for the failed assault .

Get thoseC4's neutralized now .

You can do this .

You're up for this .

Are the results in yet .

There's no need to worry so much .

You won't actually bedismantling the bombs .

That's not for a amateurs .

What we'll tryhere instead is a temporary freezing method .

This is a C4 bomb .

Now you spray this on the sucker and .

The spray freezes the detonatorinstantly .

How long does the effects last .

There's no way the thing can detonate in this condition .

Even ifyou leave it alone it will stay out of commission for at least 24hours .

That's enough time .

But thiswill have to do .

The spray can be used from several yards away .

Try to imagine the location of the bombs could be .

That won't be a problem .

This sensor detects the scent of the signature on Fatman's bombs .

So in other words it sniffs out the bombs .

What if Fatman uses a different type of scentless bomb .

I know Fatman well .

I know how into his own aesthetics he is .

The sensor also picks up that particular scentspectrum .

Is that something he learned from you .

And common sense isn't one of his strong points .

I thought I taught him everything I knew .

There's something very unusualabout an ability like that .

Maybe that's what started all this .

I didn't teachhim the most important thing I had to tell him .

There are somethings you have to pass on .

The trick is to know which one .

All I taught him were skills .

And now I have to stophim from using it to destroy us all .

Let's see how well that sensor works .

You see the green stuff on theradar .

That's the visual representation of the C4 scent detectedby the sensors .

Don't forget that you need the radio to use this .

Log into thenode in every strut and turn the radar on .

We have to keep out of the enemy's sights too .

Because the radar gets knocked offline when were spotted .

Fatman allotted some C4 here on Strut C as well .

You know this for sure .

I taught him the techniques .

His ideas are based on mytheories .

Demolition is a kind of ideology and makes noexceptions to time or place .

Big Shell consists of two hexagonsend-on-end north to south .

They should be backing C4 on each ofthe vertexes or the struts in this case .

You need at least that totake a building of this integrity out .

Six on Shell 1 .

Another six on Shell 2 .

A total of twelve bombsat least .

And that is exactlywhat he would have decided as well .

I'll take care of Shell 2 .

Security cards issued to Shell personnel .

The Big Shell securitylayout includes varying levels off limits .

The clearance level isindicated by the number printed on these doors .

You need it to get next door toShell 2 .

How did you get these .

That engineer I told you about gave it to me .

He was supposed toprogram a set of all access cards once we were on site .

We'll have to deal with the remaining security lock-ups as theycome up .

Let's get going .

You'll just slow us down with that leg of yours .

There's a wargoing on here .

I don't have time to baby-sit any more .

Why don't you just let us do all the grunt work .

You can tell uswhat to do over the radio like in the original mission plan .

I'll give you instructions from here .

I may also needto prepare a back-up plan just in case .

In case of what .

Good luck to both of you .

This is a dangerous one .

I'll see you later .

That man is no SEAL .

I don't even think he's a Navy man .

Flashbacks of the choppers from the beginning are shown .

Is he one of the terrorists then .

Just take care of those bombs for now .

They could be back in this area soon .

I'll hide out in this pantry for a while .

If I lock the door itshould be alright .

I'll give you instructions from Codec fromhere .

Stillman begins to close the pantry door .

Bomb disposal is a face off with your own mortality .

Don't letthe fear get to you .

I took care of the C4 in Strut C .

The ceiling of theWomen's Bathroom was set to blow .

That's not like him .

What do you mean .

It means that they wouldn't be the best places to choose if youwanted to destroy this place .

Are you saying they don't plan on blowing the Shell up .

It certainly seems that way .

He couldn't have overlooked the fact that I would be called intothis .

There's something going on .

The C4 found in Strut A has been frozen anddisposed of .

Explosives were planted in the Pump Room on thefirst floor .

This is all wrong .

This is something only an amateur would do .

And the quantity of explosives isn'tsufficient either .

I've got a bad feeling about this .

Do you think it's a trap .

Jack  it must be so nerve-racking to defuse a bomb .

That's all right .

It's just that I've never been trained in thisstuff .

Are you feeling well .

I almost threw up a few times .

But I'm okay .

It's not like I'm in this alone .

What do you think about when you'redefusing those things .

I don't think so much as remember .

I can't let myself beoverwhelmed by the fear .

I was just kidding .

But I guess this isn't a good time for that .

And I do think about you .

I'm trying to rememberwhat's so special about April 30th .

You need to stay alive so you can .

I bet bomb disposal's a lot like starting arelationship .

What are you talking about .

Neither of them are my strong point .

It's true that you're not the most patient man in the world .

It's not that .

I like to leave things as they are .

Are you afraid of what might be hidden inside .

Do you know why I took this job .

I wanted to see what you werereally like .

But we've been together a while .

You know me already .

No  you never let me in past a certain point .

And I need toknow what's there .

Are you trying to take me apart now .

Be careful . There are Claymore mines around there .

You mean from Shadow Moses .

Why would it matter if I called you Deepthroat .

Never mind about that .

Why did you contact me .

Let's just say I'm one of your fans .

X just contacted me .

Do youknow anything about it .

Thetransmission was sent from within the Big Shell .

He called himself "Deepthroat" at first .

Do you think .

Is it an enemy trap .

I've taken care of that annoying fly .

What's the situation overthere .

I saw a man dressed as a Ninja just now .

It's the only way to describe it .

Are you hiding something from me .

Are you sure it wasn't a Arsenal Tengu .

Don't be a fool to think I wouldn't know the difference .

I'venever seen field gear like that ever .

You'll find it hard to believe though .

On the connecting bridge to Shell 2 .

So you believe me this time .

I've seen someone use that box trick before .

We'll lay a trapon the Shell 2 connecting bridge .

Over and out then .

What a thing to say .

I saw a female soldier  Russian .

Must be Olga Gurlukovich .

How do you know .

She's not a Dead Cell .

They must be the ones patrolling the Big Shell .

Watch yourself with her .

She's a tough one .

The C4 reported on the roof of Strut E has beentaken care of .

Explosives were planted on the Harrier 2 stationedon the roof .

Only one more left to go .

Wait  what's this about .

I asked Pliskin to look around .

So did you find anything .

A hell of a lot of C4's packed into the bottom of the strut .

I knew he had the real thing up his sleeve .

So all the other ones were dummies .

But the C4's Pliskin foundwould inflict serious structural damage .

That's not the bad news either .

These are sensor-proof .

The ionization sensor can't detect them .

But you managed to find the thing anyway .

It was sheer luck .

Bombs that are invisible to the sensor .

Are there more out there .

I'll go see for myself .

You can't move fast enough .

I can try the spray from a distance .

Should I come back and get you .

Right  except for those scentless ones .

I have two left not counting this one .

It'll have to be me .

I have the level 4 card that'll getme into Shell 2 in any case .

You'll never make it .

That won't happen .

I can walk just fine .

I can even run .

And a church was lost in the explosion .

All those kids playing nearby too .

I didn't lose my leg in the explosion .

So many deadall because of my mistake .

I faked being avictim myself because I couldn't bear to face the families of thereal victims .

This is no prosthetic .

I can keep my footing oncatwalks and hike over deserts .

I lived my lie so well I haven'teven answered to myself for my sins .

It was supposed to be ashield .

And it's become a shroud instead .

I've killed my soul byplaying the victim .

What good can that do the victims .

I know  I'm a coward .

I can walk with my own two feet .

And I needthem to stop Fatman .

No one should teach the skills I taught himwithout a clear conscience .

This is the only way I can defuse myown sins .

That one's all yours .

Iwouldn't recommend you go into any of the other struts .

I owe you one .

I'll get back to freezing the baby bombs then .

I have the last C4 frozen .

There's nothing showing up on thesensor now .

I still have one to go .

It's a bomb all right .

You think there's another one in Shell 1 .

Somewhere at the bottom of Strut A .

Why are you so certain .

You mean that Shell 2 will actually sink .

There'll still be five struts left .

The Big Shell's structural integrity depends on a veryexact balance .

What do we do .

I have a sensor that can locate even those scentless C4's .

Itmakes combined use of a neutron scintillator and a hydrogen bombdetector .

You brought that stuff with you .

I made the calibrations while I was in the pantry .

There's another one in that pantry I was in .

You can go back andget it .

Don't touch the other one until I say so .

I'll standby until you radio in .

Head to the bottom of Strut A .

How's your invisible bomb .

A few more minutes .

It's an odd one  the detonator hasn't been activated .

I've located the last C4 .

Is that it .

I'm about to freeze it .

What happened .

The big ones were rigged to be activated when all the baby C4'swent offline .

What's the remaining time .

I fell for it .

Fatman has my number .

With a 7-foot range .

It's not a technique I taught him .

Neitherwas that multi-bomb booby trap .

Looks like he's far surpassed meas far as explosives technique goes .

There's less than 30 seconds left .

It's too late .

Use the spray from as far away aspossible .

You can do it .

I'm not so sure .

It was a great loss foreveryone .

Seems that the duct for diverting the contaminated sea water wasdestroyed .

And the central section of Shell 2 is flooding .

Theexplosion's ignited the oil slick on the surface .

What about the toxins .

The chemicals stayed in containment .

There's no immediate danger .

Is the Big Shell stable .

Shell 1 was unaffected .

What's the next objective .

Get back to the upper level .

A hostage has been killed  shot in the head .

They announced that they would kill one every hour from now on .

What are my orders .

What should I do .

Stay with your mission objective .

What about the other hostages .

President Johnson is your first priority .

They're all in danger .

Are you expecting that Pliskin to come through .

Looks like he's turned his radio off too .

I can't complete this mission by myself .

That man was not included in the simulation .

He is not a factorin this mission .

Your mission must remain a solo effort .

What about the SEALs .

They haven't even gotten to planning that .

All we can do is wait .

You can start off by gettingto the upper level of Strut A .

I can't tell you how happy I am to see your alive after all .

Iknew this moment would come .

Show yourself and finish me  likeyou finished off my father .

Otherwise you will be the one to die .

That's not him .

This could be  interesting .

You've seen thefires of hell  haven't you .

Maybe you can give me death .

My name is Fortune .

Lucky in war andnothing else .

And without a death to call my own .

Looks like he placed a bomb on the heliport .

He's killed off Peter .

Now he's after you .

How should I know .

This is really not a good time for this .

I'll show you the count .

There are 400 seconds remaining .

So he's planning on taking this place out .

It looks like he has a different agenda from that of Dead Cell .

There's no time .

Which type of explosives is it .

He didn't say .

I'll take over Queen .

It seems our friend Fatman is out ofcontrol .

He'll actually try to destroy this place .

But why would he do such a thing .

But he nothing more than a stereotypical mad bombernow .

He's completely lost sight of our ideals .

I'll take care of the wayward soul .

It wasn't him .

So he couldn't kill you I see .

Then he's all mine .

No that bullet was meant for me .

Why amI the only one that can't die .

Cheated out ofdeath again .

How long will you force me to live .

You've punished me enough .

I thought you could give me peace .

But you couldn't kill meeither .

So your the one .

You're right on time I see .

I like a punctualman .

Is he Dead Cell .

I am the greatest humanity has to offer and thelowest .

Can you hear it .

This is the rhythm of time and life . Don't you love the sound .

I used to hang arounddepartment store clock counters .

Life is short . Bombs tell the time with every moment of theirexistence and nothing else announces it's own end with such afanfare .

Glad you could make it  the party is about to start .

Let's drink to Stillman  shall we .

What are you talkin' about .

Thirty billion dollars in cash .

So that's what's going on .

What the hell are you talking about .

And I could care less of what theyplan to do .

My ambitions are much more simple .

To be the mostfamous bomber of them all .

Oh yes they will .

I'll go down in history  as the man who beatPeter Stillman .

That's the only reason I existed .

What did you say .

You had nothing of his courage .

What are you laughing at .

That crock died a dishonorable death .

The liquidation of Dead Cell .

Call it what you want .

Only the right stuff survived that hell .

Opened my way to a new dimension .

So Ican become the Emperor among detonation devotees .

Your nothing but a common criminal and that's the only way peoplewill remember you .

How dare you . I'm an artist .

I plant a bomb .

If you prefer to stay in one piece  youwill have to disable my bombs .

I've nothing to wear to the party .

The party is over for you .

That's what you think .

What do you mean .

What did you just do .

What is this .

I have beautiful hands .

These delicate hands can craft works ofart .

This is the switch for the biggest bomb in the entire place .

It's no use  once it's activate there's no stopping the count .

Where did you plant it .

Where is it .

Somewhere in this area .

Where is it .

Think you can find it .

When it goes off it'll take the Big Shellwith it .

Tell me where I can find the bomb .

That's your problem .

This is the highlight of the party .

Bringit on I say .

It'll make them happy too .

I die here  and startmy legend .

Looks like all the bombs are neutralized .

Oneof their main leverages is now gone .

He seemed to be comingfrom a very different place from the other terrorists .

What are my orders .

We have no idea where he is .

You haven't been in the central core yet .

I suggest you startthere .

Want me to take it .

Best to keep our presence unknown .

Is everything all right .

Looks like I was out cold for a while .

How did you manage to stay alive .

Had a little help from a friend .

What about the bomb .

That's good news .

How's Shell 2 .

It's a mess .

The bomb crippled H Strut .

What about the toxins .

I've never heard anything about that .

But the central core is starting to flood .

It won't last muchlonger .

What about the President and the other hostages .

They weren't in Shell 2 .

They must be in Shell 1 .

We need to get the hostages out of here now .

It's too far from Manhattan for a swim .

What about the lifeboats .

There doesn't seem to be any .

Doesn't make sense .

So a chopper is our only extraction .

And it comes with a passenger limit .

Intel has it thatthere are about thirty hostages .

It'd take more than a single trip .

We'll have to come back .

Can you pilot a chopper .

He's a good guy .

I'llintroduce you later .

It's out somewhere .

We'd better move now then .

Our chances with a Harrier after usare close to nothing .

Do you know where the President is .

That one's all yours .

The President is at the top of our rescue list .

You passed with flying colors .

I'm like you .

Are you with FOXHOUND too .

Neither enemy nor friend .

Just a messenger from theLa-li-lu-le-lo .

All right  why did you contact me .

Why won't you identify yourself .

There is no need for you to know .

I'll decide whether I need to know .

You are not yet trusted to make such decisions .

The current location ofthe President .

The head of the President's security detail .

Ames has been fittedwith the same type of VIP nanomachine system as the President .

Why are you telling me this .

Do I need to repeat myself .

There's no reason for me to believe any of this .

But you also have no choice but to believe .

Do you have any other leads .

Ha ha ha ha .

The hostages are being held in B1 Conference Room in the Shell 1Core .

You'll find him in there .

What does he look like .

How am I supposed to look for someone without even a description .

What's that supposed to mean .

Ames has a pacemaker .

You'll be able to hear the machine's soundin a heartbeat .

You expect me to walk up to every one of these hostages andlisten to their heartbeats .

The sounds are too minute to be hear unamplified  you'll becaptured immediately .

So what am I supposed to do .

Use a directional microphone .

There's one somewhere in the core .

This security card will unlock all the level 3security doors including those in the Shell 1 core .

It's calleda PAN card .

It works together with your body's own electricalfield .

The Core is more heavily guarded thanany other section of the Big Shell .

You'll get nowhere dressedlike that .

One of the terrorists .

The surveillance camera won't let you on the elevator withoutthe right uniform .

You want me to disguise myself .

Men assigned to the Core and other areas are given differentcolor uniforms .

The uniform alone won't get you in there .

Your talking about weapons .

But I saw them carrying AN94's .

All men assigned to the core section are carrying AK's .

So without a AKs-74u someone will see through me really quickly .

You can take care of the weapon part yourself .

You'll also have to pass a retinal scan to get into theconference hall .

Nothing but the real thing will suffice .

Deception is not anoption .

I suggest you hurry .

They have the nuke on their side .

The nuke .

They have a nuclear weapon WITH them .

You didn't find their continuing presence here unusual .

The security lockout can't be bypassed .

They don't need to .

They have the code .

You saw it too I believe  the Navy man with half a handcuff .

Why did they have to bring the football along .

But they did have to .

Dead Cell didn'thave to bring a nuke along with them .

It was right here to beginwith .

Nothing in this affair is what it seems .

A cover-up  but why .

Metal Gear .

Bipedal nuclear-capable vehicle of Shadow Mosesinfamy .

This place is the R&D center for it's newest incarnation .

What the hell is going on .

Better ask Ames the rest .

What's this for .

You might be glad you have it .

Keep the controller vibrationfunction on .

What would I need a cell phone for .

He's not one of ours .

No  we have no one like that in our unit .

He said that the Big Shell was housing a new model of Metal Gear .

First I've heard of it .

I've told youeverything .

Is that everything you know  or everything I need to know .

You need to make contact with this Ames .

So you believe that Ninja .

Are those my orders .

Disguise yourself as an enemy soldier andinfiltrate the Shell 1 Core .

The only thing weknow is that Ames wears a pacemaker .

Then push the Action Button andcall out to him .

What if it's the wrong person .

The guards may get suspicious and come running instead .

Securitycould get tighter too .

Try to be sure before you take the risk .

Don't call out to a hostage with the Action button until you'refairly sure that it's Ames .

You won't make it out ofthe room .

The mission will be over if your discovered .

You must be Ames .

Keep still and listen to me .

I'm not aterrorist .

I got in here using one of their uniforms .

Who told you about me .

An informant calling himself Mr .

I'm Richard Ames .

Your here to find out where the President is .

We have littletime so I'll be brief .

How about switching to nanocommunicationsfirst .

Do you really know where the President is .

He was moved to the first floor of Shell 2'score section .

Is he still there .

I don't know .

I can't get a response .

You don't think he's been  like the other hostages .

What are you talking about .

What makes you so sure .

You mean the nuclear button they took .

And the case won't do a thing by itself .

That case may bethe single most advanced example of a weapons fail-safe system .

And that's why they can't harm the President .

Is there really a new model of Metal Gear here .

The Black Case serves as the launch key to Metal Gearas well .

Why would they hide a Metal Gear in an offshore plant .

The inspection tour was to check its progress .

What's going on around here .

Use the microphone to listen in .

It doesn't matter  saved us the trouble of getting rid of himourselves .

Why did he betray us .

There a band of lunatics to begin with .

Nothing they do shouldcome as a surprise .

I'll have his background checked just in case .

You think he was working for them .

We can't discount the possibility  especially with thatintruder still at large .

The man in the Sneaking Suit .

You know more about those suits then I do .

But FOXHOUND was disbanded 4 years ago .

So it must be  thePatriots .

What about the damage to Shell 2 .

The circulation system for the contaminated water has beendamaged .

The water being drawn in is overflowing and the lowerblock of the central section is flooding .

Seal the connecting pathway Shells 1 and 2 .

The SEMTEX and IR sensors are already in place .

What about the President .

The password entry has already been made to the black case .

Inone hour we'll need a confirmation from him .

His work is doneafter that .

Make sure you keep him alive until then .

What about the unit's activation .

The code has already been input .

All we need nowis for the girl to start the system .

The usual method I assume .

I cannot even guess .

I'm having the matter looked into .

Where it isn't do .

When you watched my father die and didnothing .

I know that the Ninja is not one of my men .

How meaningful you make that sound .

Of Sergei were still alive .

If the old man were still alive I wouldn't need to take ordersfrom you .

Listen daughter of Sergei .

Don't ever let me see your gun pointedat me again .

I'll put a bullet in your back instead .

You think anygovernment would have you two as irregulars in this politicalclimate .

The worst kind of wetworks maybe  but even that'sdoubtful .

I recommend against switching camps .

You've nowhereleft to go .

U-ughh .

It's happening again .

This damn right arm  Liquid . It's almost as if it's having it'srevenge .

How much do you think we spent on that arm in Leyon .

The besttransplant surgery team in the world .

I never trust a Frenchman .

There's something going on .

The incidents are becoming morefrequent .

Maybe that man's presence .

I have the intruder totake care of .

That's what he claims .

I thought Snake was dead .

Solid Snake did die .

But he's also here in the Shell .

Either hesurvived or there is two of them .

And that's impossible .

They said password input was complete .

You said the password entry into the Black Case had to be made bythe President willingly .

So this means the President is cooperating with them .

Probably tired of being a puppet .

Butit wasn't a smart move to betray us .

We're running out of time .

They WILL fire a nuke .

You know whatyou need to do before then .

But it's nowhere close to the ransom deadline .

Thirty billion dollars in cash .

What are you babbling about . The nuclear strike is not a threatit's been the objective all along .

They plan to slaughter millions of people .

No  a high-altitude detonation .

You've heard of the ComptonEffect .

The total disruption of electronic equipment caused by EMMApulse .

But that isn't their aim .

It's a security card .

You'll be able to unlock doors of up tolevel 3 security .

Use it to get to Shell 2 .

Take care of thePresident before they launch the nuke .

What do you think you're doing .

I asked him to remove these .

I always knew the DIA turned out second-rate liars .

What are you talking about .

No need for denials .

You know what you are  Colonel Ames .

You .

You'll never escape the La-li-lu-le-lo .

You  you tricked me .

Show me your face .

You know who he is .

We meet at last .

Hold you fire . We need the hostages alive .

Leave this to me .

Looked like a heart attack .

So there really is a new type of Metal Gear in this place .

We're still looking into it .

I've also been told that the nuclear strike was what the terrorists were after from the start .

NOT the thirty billiondollars .

I am not keeping back anything . It's not as though I'm told allthe facts either . I'm pulling in all the favors I can to lookinto all this .

Just be a little patient .

We can takeit that they've completed the password entry and are preparingMetal Gear for nuclear strike .

Get to the President as soon aspossible .

But it's also true that they're about toget rid of the President .

You need to rescue the President before then .

You need to protect the Presidentfor now .

Where have you been .

I'm in Strut H right now .

How's the situationover there .

We have a lead on the President's location .

I'm cut off from the core where I am .

It's a mess here .

I'm on my way to Shell 2 right now .

There are IR sensors in place on the connecting bridge betweenShells 1 and 2 .

Target the control units and destroy them .

Make sure you don'tshoot the Semtex .

What do the control units look like .

Take a look with your binoculars .

That's the Semtex .

And that must be the control unit .

I'm all ears .

One of the enemy's Kasatkas .

Is it in good shape .

I'm heading for Shell 1 now .

What about that Harrier .

It's not on the heliport here .

I'll set this one down there then .

Can you cover the hostages .

They're being held on level B1 in thecore .

No  nothing like that .

How many hostages are there .

There's a few short of thirty .

The Kasatka's cargo area will hold thirteen max .

What about the other Kasatka .

It can't come after us if it can't get off theground .

We'll have to make two trips .

Can you fly a Kasatka .

Nice to meet you .

Who exactly is Pliskin andhis partner .

I know what you're thinking .

It keeps coming back to Shadow Moses .

And now this Otacon .

A Shadow Moses survivor .

An anti-Metal Gear organization .

They sabotaged and destroyed countless Metal Gear unitsthroughout the world .

And were responsible for the incident twoyears ago that necessitated the construction of the Big Shell .

Snake and his partner aren't terrorists .

I look back on what I've done here so far and things like training and sense of duty alone won't get you through a sneaking on like this .

You need something  higher .

I'd stake my life on it .

TheSolid Snake that saved Shadow Moses couldn't turn into aterrorist .

We even recovered Snake's body .

And the DNA test results onthe body say it's him .

But that also means that he can't be the terrorist leader behindthis thing .

I've been waiting for you .

A messenger  from the Patriots .

Where do I know you from .

So your the boss around here .

I'm the boss to surpass Big Bosshimself .

What a pleasant surprise  brother .

Don't say you've forgotten me  Snake .

Did I get him .

The world needs only one Big Boss .

I'll drown you fools forinterfering .

The Katsaka can'tstand up to the Harrier .

You have to shoot the Harrier down .

I'm counting on you .

There's something coming up .

It's Metal Gear .

It's already active .

They got my eye .

Vamp  go .

It's running on water .

How about you guys .

We need some time for repairs .

The President's all yours .

Can I ask you something .

Are you THE Snake .

They said youwere dead .

There are still too many things I need to do .

A legend is nothing but fiction .

How couldyou come back to all this .

There's something my best friend said to me once .

We're not tools of the government or anyone else .

At least I always fought forwhat I believed in .

What about  what about the DNA results from that body .

That was Liquid's body .

He and Snake are identical on the geneticlevel .

A deception  for our own protection .

We stole his frozen bodyfrom some organization .

Kind of a hassle though .

That's all there is to it .

Are you two really an NGO .

The cause happens to be the eradication of MetalGear .

We work on our own .

But it's a cause worth fighting for .

Why would you stick your neck out for something this risky .

To keep track of the mistakes we've made as a species .

We need to remember  to spread the word  to fight for change .

You think you can change the future .

I'm not as arrogant as that .

What you do isn't grassroots activism .

It's more like terrorism .

Theinformation came from a very reliable source .

So you're here to .

Looks like the terrorists have his sister in the Big Shell .

We have our ownbattles .

Otacon's here for someone  I'm not .

This is a military mission .

Are you all right .

You almost gave me a heart attack .

And I know I need to stay stronger .

So I can come back .

You will make it back .

It's not too late .

You can still prevent a nuclear strike bysecuring the President and preventing password confirmation fromtaking place .

Get to the President .

He's in the core section ofShell 2 .

I'm checking the satellite images .

Looks like you can get tothe core from the other side of Strut L .

The core hasn't gone under yet from what we can tell .

The only viable strut in the outer perimeter is the L .

Thatattack just now doesn't make any sense  it's like they have nomore use for this place .

Don't let your guard down with him .

Why do you say that .

Because they were never a part of the simulation .

They're anunknown factor .

I don'tunderstand .

I read about you and Snake in "In the Darkness ofShadow Moses" .

I don't give a damn what that piece of trash said .

Do you get me .

My father has some unfinished business with him .

Then screw your plan .

I've been waiting for this day for twoyears and I will send him to the bottom of the ocean  rightnext to my old man .

The launch comes first .

I don't trust him .

Don't talk that way about one of you own .

He's not "one of my own" .

We'll talk later .

We need to get started on the final check forthe unit .

The upper connecting bridge for Shell 1 is down .

What about the chopper .

The Kamov is out of action .

Take the Oil Fence from Strut L .

I'll tell my men to get started .

The intruder is still atlarge .

What about the other .

He's got luck on his side .

He survived that explosion .

Keep the President alive until then .

Turn the currents on .

High-voltage currents on .

The door stays shut unless the President manages to take out thatcircuit panel from inside the room  and that's no job for barehands .

We live for Russia when this mission is over .

I want half themoney for that .

Of course  that was part of the original plan .

We're living for ourselves after this .

Gladly  Gurlukovich soldiers are the cream of the crop .

It's time they went free .

What happened to rebuilding Mother Russia .

The old man is dead  the world is a different place now .

It's your life .

Don't tryanything on us .

The feeling is mutual .

I'm in front of the room where they're keeping the President .

Don't test it .

You'll be bacon .

Remember the Shadow Moses VR training .

Take out the circuit panel .

But there's no way into the room .

Look for a remote-control missile launcher .

You can guide itthrough the duct into the room .

But make sure you don't hit the President .

The President is wired with nanomachines .

It lookslike the walls have a built-in radio shield .

So that's why Ames lost contact with him .

Locate a remote-control missile launcher first .

You'll have to swim through .

I'm fine with swimming .

Stroke the water and move forward by pushing the Punch button .

Change your heading withthe left analog stick .

The O2 Gauge will appearunder your Life Gauge while you're underwater .

The gaugecorresponds to the amount of air you can hold from a single deepbreath .

You need to be aware of that .

So your finally here .

You've been expecting me .

Your equipment  that Skull Suit isn't exactly standard militaryissue .

Is this some kind of sick joke  I thought you came to kill me .

I'm prepared to face the consequences of my actions .

What are you .

What the  .

Now things are starting to make a little sense .

It's my understanding that the terrorists havemanaged to input the code sequence necessary for launching anuclear strike .

I punched the sequence in myself .

You're working for them .

I wouldn't quite put it that way .

But why stoop to terrorism .

I wanted absolute power .

But you're the President  you have power .

I'm just a figurehead .

I don't have any control .

The real power is in the Patriots'hands .

The truth behind this country .

I'm not surprised you've neverheard of them .

Theyeven choose who becomes President .

But it's the truth .

Space Defense was initiated by Congress .

That's what the Patriots want the country to believe .

It's alla show .

This country is shaped and controlled as the Patriots see fit .

What you callgovernment is actually a well-staged production aimed atsatisfying the public .

It's not your sanity that worries me .

The Patriots  even I don't know who the actual members are .

No one knows whothe Patriots really are .

Even my instructions  come from acut-out .

All I've been told is that every key decision is made bya group of twelve men known as the Wisemen's Committee .

Pawns in a game .

What do you mean .

You'll understand someday .

I wished to be a member of the Patriots .

And that justifies acts of terrorism .

I'd intended to use the new Metal Gear as a bargaining chip .

But I underestimated Solidus .

What are you saying .

Can you imagine what wouldhappen if they ceased to function .

Like it or not  the Patriots is an organizationthat must continue to exist .

So you changed your mind because you wanted to avoid globalchaos .

And who is this .

That was the name the public cameto know him by .

I thought he resigned .

That's the story given to the general public .

It was a well-scripted dramastaged by the Patriots for the benefit of the public .

Even theDemocrats and Republicans were dancing to the Patriots' tune .

The completion of the new Metal Gear project  an opportunitythat would even his odds against the Patriots .

It's the only chance he has forsurvival .

Metal Gear is already operational .

What you saw was Metal Gear RAY  hijacked two years ago fromthe Marines by Ocelot .

That was not the new Metal Gear .

You're standing in it .

What'd you say .

I'm quite serious .

The upper structure that you've seen iscamouflage designed to represent an offshore cleanup facility .

The connecting elevator is located on the B2floor of the Shell 1 Core .

We're talking about an impregnablefortress carrying a load of over a couple of thousand missilesincluding nuclear warheads  all protected by a horde ofmass-produced Metal Gear RAY units .

The RAY unit was originally designed for the Marines to be usedas a countermeasure against the Metal Gear variations throughoutthe world .

The Patriots had RAY redesigned  to protect the newArsenal Gear .

So now anti-Metal Gears are guarding a Metal Gear .

That's not all .

What kind of idiotic weapon .

You're not seeing the full picture .

Arsenal Gear is more than just a military tool .

It is a means to preserve the world as it is .

It will establisha new form of control .

The Patriots will use it to keep their place as the country'strue rulers .

Arsenal Gearwill be fully operational when "GW" is successfully integrated .

I had hoped to seize the project from themso that I would be in a strong bargaining position .

I'd hoped to trade my way into their ranks .

Outer Heaven  his plan to unleash a nuclear blastover the skies of Wall Street to break the Patriots' control overthe business community  is also a key factor in his offensiveeffort .

There isn't much time .

The "football" served as the keyfor activating Arsenal Gear .

I've already input the necessarycode sequence .

It won't be long before "GW" begins toestablish connections with other external systems and ArsenalGear becomes fully operational .

Stop them before that happens .

You've got to find Emma Emmerich .

She's the only one who can stopthat thing once it's been activated .

Emma  Emmerich .

She's the system programmer for Arsenal Gear .

I believe she'ssomewhere on level B1 in the core of this building .

I thought the levels below us were flooded .

I'm sure they won't let her die just yet as she's the onlyremaining programmer for this project .

Here's security card 4 .

It will give you access all the way toEmma's location .

Give this to her when you find her .

A program to disrupt the control functions between GW and ArsenalGear .

Take Emma to the computer room on level B2 of the Shell 1Core .

She'll know how to load the program into the main system .

Modeled after FOX-DIE  a biological weapon usedto selectively eliminate personnel with a specific genetic code .

But why do you have it .

The Patriots had it engineered as a fail-safe .

And Ocelot forgotto search me .

You've got to hurry . That disc is the only wayyou're going to stop Arsenal .

There's only one thing that remains to be done .

There's no time to argue . The final check for my vital ID couldstart any second now .

If you kill me now you'll at least preventthe nuclear strike .

Do it . That's your role . Pull .

Or is it Ex-president .

The President  why did you .

I'll see you around  "Carrier Boy" .

My only real choiceis to put a end to this charade .

Let me at least have the freedomto end it myself .

What are you .

I'm counting on you .

I'm sorry to hear that .

Where do we go from here .

Your mission was to rescue the President and eliminate theterrorist threat .

You must put a stop toArsenal Gear once and for all .

Do you actually think there's any truth to his story about thisBig Shell facility being a front for Arsenal Gear .

I don't have the security clearance necessary to verify thefacts .

I'm sure he knew what hewas talking about .

Aren't you forgetting that he was part of the terrorist plot .

All the more reason why I believe his information is reliable .

That was not my intention .

I was trying to point out that thereis certainly some credibility to the words of a man who chosedeath to protect the innocent .

What about the information he gave me on the "Patriots" .

That's a new one on me .

I'll see what I can find out .

You've got to find her before Arsenal becomes fullyoperational .

It's up to you to make sure that the President didn't sacrificehis life in vain .

What about the nuclear strike code sequence .

He died before his vital ID could be reconfirmed .

It doesn't make any sense .

They had to know that theycouldn't launch the nuke if they killed the President .

Maybe there's a way to launch without reconfirming the vital ID .

Or maybe they've found a more effective weapon within ArsenalGear .

You knew about Arsenal Gear .

Why didn't you tell me about it .

Am I correct in assuming you also know that the Big Shell's afront for the project .

It's exactly what the President and Ames described .

There's no doubt that Arsenal Gear is being built here .

What really happened here .

I took these photos two years ago .

I remember these pictures .

They were on the news and severalwebsites .

We hoped that by going public with the photos of the new MetalGear we could persuade the government .

At least that was the planat the time .

I've gone through VR training of the Tanker mission before .

Well I doubt it accurately simulates the events of thatactual mission .

I'd infiltrated the dummy tanker to obtain proof that a MetalGear was under development .

Olga and Ocelot were among the raiding party .

Who're you talking about .

A man that was supposed to be dead .

Their target was also MetalGear RAY .

But Ocelot eliminated Colonel Gurlukovich and MarineCommander Scott Dolph  and he hijacked RAY .

So he betrayed them .

I don't know what kind of deal was going down .

All I remember iswhat Ocelot said at the time  something about taking it back .

How did you manage to get out .

Otacon managed to have a small boat ready for me .

That was the easy part .

The tough part was not getting draggeddown with the sinking tanker  small miracle when you thinkabout it .

It turned out that the whole thing was a setup to lure us .

Photos of Snake  taken by the Cypher  were released to thepublic .

It was definitely a move aimed at putting a stop toour anti-Metal Gear activities .

But why did they choose Snake .

Ithink the Patriots weren't too happy about that .

You knew about the Patriots .

It seems like everyone knows about them except me .

They didn't choose Snake to be a hero .

So they decided to do a smear campaign .

I think the Patriots wanted to make an example of him soeverybody would think twice before opposing them .

That's it . They set all this up just to nail you guys .

There's more to it than that  the Marines' Metal Gear RAYproject headed by Commander Dolph was carried out in oppositionto the Navy's Arsenal Gear project .

Theyfollowed this up with the perfect plan .

And we fell for it  two more puppets in their show .

Both fell victim to Ocelot's plot .

Was Solidus behind all this .

Then it must be the Patriots .

We're wasting time .

We can figure this out later .

If the opposition gets control of those missiles .

Raiden  you've got to find Emma .

What's she doing here .

She's a computer whiz who specializes in neural-AI and ultra-variable volume data analysisusing complex logic .

How she got involved in weapons developmentis beyond me .

Raiden  find her .

The seawater that'sbeen pumped up is pouring into the building .

Don't worry about her .

She's afraid of water .

She can't swim .

Well yes and no .

That pretty much coincides with what the Colonel told me .

I learned laterthat E .

She didn't doubt for aminute that I'd be there .

You could see the pool from my room .

What were you doing .

So Emma survived the ordeal .

But my father didn't .

So you blamed yourself and left your family .

And you think that she can't swim because of the traumaticexperience .

I haven't seen her since that day .

You want me to help her get over it .

It's still going to take some time to repair the Kamov .

Emma's rescue is up to you .

Look I'll see what I can do .

I covered most of the core when I had to take out the C4's .

I'll do that .

Still tickin' .

Human muscles are quite eloquent .

Theyspeak-out clearly what the person's next movement will be .

Theyeven tell me which way a gun will be pointed before the triggeris pulled .

But your muscles  they're different .

You knew I was coming .

You think I'm going to lose  I can't let you interfere withArsenal Gear .

The girl is just ahead .

She is of no use to us now .

But sheserved us well as the live bait for the big catch .

Crazy Ivansometimes speaks the truth .

She was quite some time ago .

But the flooding has become quiteserious .

I wouldn't be surprised if she's a mermaid now .

Did you really think killing the President would prevent anuclear strike .

I didn't do it .

Arsenal Gear is still armed with a purified hydrogenbomb .

Purified hydrogen bomb .

This is no ordinary nuclear bomb .

This weapon is capable of heavyhydrogen nuclear fusion using lasers and magnetics to generateheat-insulated compression .

It was a top secret project initiatedby the current President .

The clean thermonuclear bomb is at an experimentalstage and is handled differently .

A nuclear threat stillexists .

We wereabandoned to take the fall in their cover up .

We were labeled askillers responsible for the mass-murder of civilians as well asour own allies .

Our only goalis to wipe them from the face of the earth  and destroy thisworld of deceit they have created along with them .

We might be the only ones telling the truth .

Final check for activating Arsenal is completed .

Allnon-essential personnel report to your stations .

Your still hoping that girl can install that virus your carryingaround  aren't you .

It's a shame your not going to be around long enough to hand herthe program .

It's a byproduct of the microbescontained in the pool .

Buoyancy is practically non-existentthanks to the high oxygen content .

Once you fall in  you don'tcome up . Take a good look at your grave .

Show me what you've got .

I didn't make it on time .

The hostage rescue's gonna have to wait .

I'm going after Emma .

We'll secure the Computer Room .

Looks like we can't install the virus program without Emma .

Can't your partner do it .

I would if I could .

But the security for this system is no joke .

That's why we need her .

I'll make sure you have your family reunion .

A lot of years have passed between E .

I don't have the right to see her .

We can talk about this later .

I've always been alone .

I'm so lonely .

You've never slept beside me .

What are you talking about .

After we've been together in my room .

Is this really the time to bring this up .

Why can't you relax when you're with me .

Why don't you open up to me .

I just can't .

All I ever wanted was to share your dreams  to spend ameaningful evening with you .

I just wanted to find you by myside when I woke up .

Is that asking too much .

It's the night  I'm scared of the night .

Scared of the night .

What's that supposed to mean .

I can't relax when I'm with someone .

You wouldn't even let me in your room .

I just can't be bothered .

Wrong word . What I wanted to say was that there are certainthings that I have to keep to myself .

Do you remember that time I forced my way into your room .

We'dknown each other for almost a year .

It wasn't your violent nature that scared me .

It was your room .

There wasn't anything in your room  only a bed and a smalldesk .

It looked like a prison cell .

That's why I tried to keep you out .

I thought I was beginning to understand you  until I saw thatroom .

Would you have been happier if I had a picture of you hanging onthe wall .

We'll talk about this later .

Who are you .

I'm getting you out of here .

Your lying  where are you taking me this time .

What are you talking about .

I'm here to help . Here  it'llprove it .

Do you have nanos .

Everyone on this project has them .

Then you're not one of them .

That's what I've been trying to tell you .

And you came to rescue me .

I understand you're the only one who might be able to do it .

And who told you that .

I need you to come with me to Shell 1 .

Your brother's waiting foryou there .

C'mon . We have to get moving . This place'll be flooded soon .

We'd better move .

I can't .

I can't swim .

You can swim . You used to love it .

Your brother told me .

He's really here .

I don't believe you . He would never come for me .

And I'm telling you he's here  waiting for us at Shell 1 .

I can't swim .

You can do it .

I can't .

I can't keep my eyes open in the water .

I'll guide you .

I was injected with something . Um .

Just hold your breath .

I'll do the rest .

So all I have to do is hold my breath .

Just a little while .

I don't think I can do it .

I'm not good at holding my breath .

Put your ear against my chest and listen to my heartbeat .

Count the beats  don't think about anything else .

Give me a signal if you think you're running out of breath .

What will you do then .

I'll swim faster .

I'm closing my eyes .

Take some deep breaths .

Let me take off my glasses .

There's nothing wrong with my eyes .

I wear these for show .

Trying to be different from the other girls .

It sounds like you and Miss Emma are getting alongjust fine .

I've been monitoring your every move and conversation .

Give me a break . I'm only trying to keep her spirits up .

My mission is to get her to the Computer Room .

You know how I feel about you .

Have you remembered yet .

You mean April 30th .

What is it then .

Maybe I'm just a little .

You'd better get moving .

I concentrated on your heartbeat .

It reminds me of when I wasa kid .

I remembered my brother giving me a piggyback ride .

I wassleeping with my ear against his back .

I could hear hisheartbeat .

Sounds like you were close .

We were stepchildren in our parent's secondmarriages .

We both wanted to be loved so much .

My brother was the husband and I was the wife .

But it was alwaysjust make believe .

You know what I mean .

I never had a family .

I've got Emma Emmerich here .

Get her over to Shell 1 as soon as you can .

That's going to be hard with the connecting bridge on the upperlevel destroyed .

Didn't Olga say something about taking the oil fence at thebottom of Strut L .

You should be able to go down by way of Strut L .

Try and get overthere .

She's been injected with something and she can'twalk without any help .

Take her with you .

Emma can sit andwait until you help her back up .

We're on our way .

We're heading your way .

Shell 1's deserted .

Looks like everybody's aboard Arsenal .

I'll put her on then .

I'll use my Codec as a relay .

I should've known .

Answer me . Why are you repeating the same mistake .

I wanted to see you suffer .

Alright  that's enough .

Enough with the sibling rivalry .

That's not what this is .

I  I .

I'll head over there with Emma .

Most of the enemy's aboard Arsenal .

But I suggest you be careful .

I'll get her there .

I've got this disc the President gave me .

This disc is supposedto contain a virus that can corrupt Arsenal Gear's operatingsystem .

We need you to .

This is my program .

Why did the President give it to you .

Did something happen to the President .

You actually wrote this virus .

It's not really a virus .

It'sactually a delayed-effect autonomous program that's designed toinvade GW's cerebrum and render its nerve connections useless .

You know what GW is .

Cat got your tongue .

How about the "Patriots" ever heard of them .

Everheard of 'em .

But I only know what I've been told .

Can you tell me what you know .

But it's hard to put into words .

Yes  loud and clear .

The President said that Arsenal Gear was the Patriots' key tosupremacy .

That's as good a description as any .

What exactly is it .

It's a massive data processing system capable of controllinginformation on a global scale .

The system's a social device for maintaining thePatriots' control .

You've lost me .

A variety of information  gatheredby servers employing the latest in high-speed communicationnetworks and P2P technology  is rapidly circulated toindividuals .

The Patriots seem to beafraid of this development .

Let me give you an example .

Yeah  I know a little about it .

That's just a small sample of uncontrolled information .

I canguarantee you the Patriots did not want Solid Snake's namepublicized .

The memory capacity  not to mention the life span  of theaverage individual is extremely limited .

It could've beenthirty letters .

What if the 4 deleted letters were controlled bya program .

Do youknow how many genes exist in an individual .

About 30 to 40 thousand .

That's what was announced at the turn of the century .

Information regarding theremaining 60 thousand was suppressed by the Patriots .

How would you know .

Do you know what a gene looks like .

Didyou count them yourself .

There are research organizations .

GW is asystem that allows the Patriots to decide what will be recordedin tomorrow's history .

So what we're talking about is one huge censorship system fordeleting information which might be inconvenient to the Patriots .

It's the only system in the world withan optic neural AI that has a parallel processing capacity of980 trillion hammets .

I suppose that being a specialist in neural AI and complex logicplayed a significant role in your association with the Metal Gearproject .

That's not the only reason .

What do you mean .

I guess there're plenty of other reasons .

But is the AI actually capable of controlling everything .

GW is only the system's core .

It's only for deciding whatdata is stored or deleted .

The actual sub-system for executingthe task exists within our social structure .

Do you remember the panic that gripped the computer industryprior to the end of the century .

You mean the Y2K problem .

The program was distributed to every governmentalorganization .

And everything supplied from that day onward contains thesame program .

Do you know how a computer operates .

Do you really know the basicprinciples on how data is exchanged .

And it'sabout to be activated .

Is that why Solidus wants to burn out every electrical circuit inManhattan with a nuclear blast .

But the overall system isn't actually complete .

It still lacks the necessary factors for judging situations .

And suddenly all thishappens .

If it wasn't for the terrorists .

I think that's about all I know .

I think we'd better head for the ComputerRoom .

My bird in the Computer Room . Is he safe .

And he's my best friend  my onlyfriend .

That's what he's for .

I needed somebody to talk to .

We've got a little longer to cover than last time .

What are those sticks in your head .

They're lacquered chopsticks .

They hold your hair inplace .

Did you know they're pretty popular in Europe and SouthAmerica .

Can't say I do .

Oh  I'm much more than cute .

This door is security level five .

I don't have card five .

She takes it off and holds it forward .

Tah-DAH .

You should have told me you had it .

Well the truth is .

I just remembered it myself .

I have a question for you .

How do you feel about heights .

I can't say I like heights .

Just a little bit .

Why do I feel like we've had this conversation before .

Think you can do it .

Would you take "no" for an answer .

How are your legs .

The numbness is gone .

I can climb down on my own .

I don't think were gonna be ableto slip past all that .

Looks like it can barely support one person .

Are you gonna ask me how old I am next .

We've made it to the lower part of Strut L .

We'll have to crossthe water from here .

The pontoon bridge doesn't look too sturdy .

Emma isgoing to have to cross it alone .

There's Cyphers and several guards .

It's time to playsniper .

This spot gives me a good view of the targets .

You're going to have to cover Emma until she crosses to Strut E .

Think you can handle it .

I know the drill .

I've faced a similar situation inAdvanced Mode Level 4 VR training with the PSG1 .

Guess that's better than nothing .

Make sure you don't hitEmma .

That doesn't mean it's going to be easy .

Make sure you use your thermal goggles .

I'm heading for Strut E .

I'm gonna clear a path for you from here .

What if I fall into the sea .

I can't swim .

You were doing pretty good a few minutes ago .

Think you can do it .

Would you take "no" for an answer .

You'll be fine .

Can you hear me .

I've reached my sniping position on Strut E .

I'll provide supportfire from here .

Do me a favor and take out whatever I miss .

Just call me when you want me to shoot .

How bad is it .

I'm bringing her overthere right now .

I'm afraidher time's running out .

I'll be there .

Emma seems to be uh .

All we need now is your disc .

You'd better hurry I don't think she's gonna make it .

How's the bleeding .

Just get over here .

You'll find the coast is clear witheverybody aboard Arsenal right now .

I think he got some internal organs .

We can't stop thebleeding .

Emma set everything up .

Apparently all you have to do is pop inthe disc .

Just leave it to Emma .

What the  .

Has the virus been uploaded .

I don't think so .

The counts stopped at 90% .

I don't think Emma's made any mistakes .

Portions of the worm cluster must have been altered after thedisc left Emma's hands .

Will the virus still work .

I have no idea .

I won't be adding .

What if that virus doesn't work .

How do we get on board .

You don't hate me .

I never wanted to get in your way .

I never wanted tohurt you .

I thought with Arsenal .

If I follow in yourfootsteps .

I could be closer .

I just wanted you to look atme .

I could never do that .

Don't be so honest .

It .

What's wrong with E .

I didn't .

I didn't mean to hurt you .

I had a relationship with your mother .

It was my fault .

Evacuate theupper levels immediately .

Sounds like they're cutting this place loose .

What do you mean .

It means were gonna sink .

We have to get the hostages out .

What about the Kamov repairs .

We won't be able to get everybody aboard .

We'll just have to take as many as we can .

We will be commencing the countdown shortly .

All personnel inthe upper levels head for the evacuation area immediately .

I'm always the survivor .

What about you guys .

We've got other arrangements .

There's our ride out of here .

I should be going with you .

I'd only get in your way .

Only you can save those hostages .

You've got a job to do .

Both you and I .

We justwanted to be loved .

We were waiting  waiting for somebody .

But we were wrong .

I wish I knew that sooner .

I learned that I couldlove .

He's gonna be OK .

You can come out now .

A ninja .

What the .

Arsenal is going to take off .

But we still need to take care of a few things .

I wouldn't do that .

Your changing sides now .

I don't recall saying I was on yours .

Ready for some shut-eye .

Are you reading me .

Do you want to save your mission dataup to this point .

Is he still alive .

He was when Olga brought him in .

He doesn't exist in any database .

He's a nonexistentoperative from a nonexistent organization .

I suspected as much .

You know this fellow .

High concentration of cerebral implants .

Have they altered yourmemory too .

This is my son .

I taught him everything .

I neverthought I'd see you again .

You don't remember .

You were one of the best among thechild soldiers that fought in that conflict .

I wondered what happenedto you .

I should've known they would recruit you .

It's a interesting coincidence .

If he's a lackey for the Patriots I doubt he knows anything ofinterest .

What should we do with him .

We'll use him like you suggested .

What about Dead Cell .

Could it be he's here too .

How about the troops .

The men have been fitted with Arsenal Gear equipment as ordered .

Perhaps I should be grateful to this kid for that .

I find it very .

I'll take this back .

You won't be needing this anymore .

What are you up to .

I'm switching over to nanocommunications .

I thought you were the leader of the Russian troops .

That was just a smoke screen .

I was sent to provide you support .

I deceived my troops .

It all startedtwo years ago when I lost my father during the tanker incident .

I was expecting atthe time .

My baby is being kept somewhere in this country .

Have you ever met your child .

That's your opinion .

I thought you were enemies .

He wasn't responsible for my father's death .

So you were partners since the incident .

I only found out the truth shortly before this .

When Iconfronted him here .

You fought with Snake .

So you joined hands with him to pay back a debt .

My job was to assist you .

The Patriots would judge that as failureon my part and terminate my child .

So you did it all for your child .

But why would the Patriots wantto help me .

Are they hoping I'll take Solidus out .

You're just like me .

Pawns for what purpose .

The S3 Plan .

You'll figure it out sooner or later  but I wonder if you'llhandle the truth .

Soliduswill commence his attack any minute .

He's got to be stopped .

What about the virus .

No results so far .

I think the Patriots have tampered with theprogram .

I don't know .

Get me out of this thing .

I'll release your restraints after I leave this room .

Where's my gear .

Snake's got everything .

I couldn't bring it here .

And where do I find Snake .

The passageway ahead leads to a hangar .

He'll be waiting for youthere .

I gave him a cardkey for the hangar .

Does Snake plan to destroy Arsenal Gear .

What are you going to do .

Stay concealed  that's my role .

I still can't afford to bediscovered .

Olga  you can't keep this up  they're bound to find you .

ICC rules don't mean a lot in war .

Someone told me that there areover three hundred thousand children in combat right now .

I wasjust one of them .

I thought your memory had been .

Why didn't you tell me .

You couldn't begin to understand .

You wouldn't know that until you try me .

I didn't want you to get hurt .

And thatsomeone was him .

It wasn't your fault .

No one is blaming you .

We were shown Hollywood action films every day .

The kind withmacho guys and big guns .

They call it image training .

Wewere fed once a day .

I can still taste the gunpowder they mixedinto the food .

They gave me a new life in the States .

I can'tcomplain .

But nothing's changed .

The only people who have noproblem with my past have secrets and agendas of their own .

I can never forget .

I'm afraid of the night .

That's why I don't sleep next to you .

You should have told me .

That I'm a killer and always have been .

What I hate more than anything else in the world is my own past .

Now I knowwhy I was chosen for this mission .

No one can take him on take him down  except me .

I've been kept alive this long forthis .

You have to believe me .

It doesn't work that way .

No one can share the burden of whatI've done .

It's not one of those warm and fuzzy things couples share .

That's what you do forsomeone you love .

I don't want to share my past with anyone .

I just want to forgetabout it .

The last two years with you  it's been more than I've everhoped for .

But I can't go any farther .

I know you want to getmarried .

But  I can't .

I can't risk starting a family .

There'sno way to erase my childhood .

You must continue your m-mission .

I've lost all my gear .

I need to locate Snake .

He was never factored into the simulation .

Leave him out of this .

I think Snake has my gear .

You must recover Arsenalintact .

Why do you keep saying that .

This is a type of role-playing game .

The point is thatyou play out your part  and I expect you to turn in a perfectperformance .

That I've never met you in person .

Complete your mission according to the simulation .

What do you mean by that .

What did you say .

The mission is a failure . Cut the power right now .

What's wrong with you .

You'll ruin your eyes playing so close to the TV .

What are you talking about .

What do you think happened to me .

Jack  I owe you an apology .

That day at Federal Hall two years agoit wasn't a coincidence .

I was ordered to keep an eye onyou .

Keep an eye on me .

Yes  by the Patriots .

You're a spy .

It's an ugly word .

Are you still there .

Was sleeping with me a part of the job .

I fell in love with you .

I can't excuse what I did .

I've reported every detail of yourpersonal life to them these two years .

Must've been fun .

But some things I didn't tell anyone . Like what I felt for you .

So that's why you were involved in this mission .

Why else would they toss an analyst into the mix at thelast minute .

I reinvented myself to suit your tastes .

They're not even real .

You must have gone over my psych profile with a fine-tooth comb .

It was my job .

Great performance  had me completely fooled .

What I really wanted was for you to see the real me .

It hurt toplay out this  this artificial romance .

It was worse to lie tomyself than to you .

So it was artificial on my end too .

I feel better knowing that .

I was in love  orthought I was  with someone who didn't exist .

I was trying tobe someone I wasn't by loving what wasn't real .

I don't know whoyou really are .

The person I knew isn't real; she's not the womanI'm talking to right now .

You expect me to believe that .

But I have nothing left to .

What's going on .

It's amazing you can walk around like that .

Ah-choo .

Where's my gear .

That's more like it .

Everything you had when you were capturedis still there .

I had to use you as bait to gain access toArsenal .

Why didn't you tell me about Olga .

Not happy about that .

Still waiting on that .

So it was rigged by the Patriots .

There's also a troop ofproduction-model Rays ahead .

Twenty-five .

No way we can .

We can because we have no other choice .

I've stocked up onStinger missiles .

Olga asked me to give it to you .

I'm not sure .

VR training will do that .

Ihave more field experience than I can remember .

It's not VRthat's doing this to me .

We're not hereto help some politician either .

Legends don't mean a whole lot .

I was just a name to exploit .

And we're not in this to make a name for ourselves .

Then what are you and Otacon fighting for .

What am I  what am I supposed to do .

Find something to believe in .

And find it for yourself .

That's your problem .

So are all the hostages .

How's everything on your end .

All right for now .

But there is something  The Colonel's lasttransmission was strange .

Just  strange .

I don't know .

Where is this Colonel .

I don't know .

I owe you one .

About this Colonel of yours  I found out where he is .

I think it means  you've been talking to an AI .

The Colonel probably isn't GW per se .

GW was most likelystimulating cortical activity in the dormant part of your brainthrough signal manipulation of your own nanomachines .

But it's probably the truth .

It was all  an illusion .

Snake  what's happening around here .

I don't know .

What I do know is that you're standing right herein front of me .

Not an illusion  flesh and blood .

You can drop this if you want .

Let's go .

It's a trap .

It's a trap .

Yeah  you're right .

Does Rose  exist .

Don't be weird .

What if I've never really met her .

Don't jump to conclusions .

You and Otacon are the ones that say the Colonel never existed .

That was the beginning ofhell for us .

The only thing we live for is to see it end .

You can't be serious about firing the nuke .

Looks like I'm today's pick .

You go on ahead .

You want eternal rest .

I've got it right here .

What are you going to do .

Bullets can't get near her .

I'll think of something .

There's no such thing as a witch .

You think you can kill me .

I didn't kill your father .

Do you think anyone believes your lies .

It looks like you'veremembered the way you used to kill in the old days . Or is it oneof the S3 Plan's proud achievements .

What are you talking about .

It came as a complete surprise when Ocelot discovered the S3 datafrom GW .

The result is a FOXHOUND commando .

I had to smoke out the agent before the missionentered the final phase .

You came in handy as bait .

At least you know .

There's no reason tokeep you alive now .

I've given you a worthy opponent at least .

It's no use .

Your nanomachines  they're transmitting your vital signs to thePatriots .

I see  so that's why you sold your troops out to me .

Weren't they your comrades .

I know I'm going to hell .

I applaud your attitude .

If you have a death wish .

I'll be happy to accommodate you .

See you in hell .

Let's pick up where we left off .

What's going on .

What's wrong with it .

The AI  GW  it's out of control .

I'm reading an abnormal impulse cascade throughout the neuralnetwork .

I can't shut it down .

The Patriots .

I don't know .

It's too late . Arsenal's system control is going haywire .

You still have some use .

I've captured Snake .

U-uh .

I admit Iunderestimated you .

U-uhn .

U-uh .

What do you hope to hear .

You know he doesn't know anything .

It's not him I want the answers from .

What do you mean .

That's not your business .

It so happens I have some business of my own to attendto .

Planning to hijack Arsenal .

I was the one who used Ocelot to suggest the idea toyou in the first place .

I was planning to give you Arsenal to begin with .

I'm no philanthropist .

Arsenal is far from impregnable .

Seizing Arsenal Gear was never the realobjective .

A list of names  of the Patriots .

They were planning to extend their control to digital informationflow with GW and Arsenal .

That means the information they want tofilter out is contained in GW .

Including that list of the highesttwelve members of the Patriots' Wisemen's Committee .

You were using us all along .

Were you any different .

No  there is another way .

But we have our own plans to carry out .

We'll take theArsenal since you don't care for it anyway .

The purified hydrogenbomb is ready to go .

A nuclear strike won't stop them .

It will damage their power source  the mindless masses that they control .

Of course  that was what you wanted .

I won't stop you .

What exactly do you find so funny .

Charades usually are humorous .

I wouldn't have minded watchingsome more of it but we're running a little short on time .

What are you talking about .

Everything you've done here has been scripted  a littleexercise set up by us .

The S3 Plan was conceived as a means to produce soldiers on parwith Solid Snake .

That's what I told you .

But the VR Training theboy was put through is not the meat of the project .

Ames and the President's deaths  the computer virus that mimicsFOXDIE .

Did you really think they were all a coincidence .

Ames'own nanomachines were used to shut down his pacemaker .

I arrangedfor the appearance of the Ninja as well .

It was also designed toeliminate every scrap of information regarding the Patriots fromGW .

We had to arrange for Stillman'spresence to coax the maniac into agreeing .

The project has no room for failures .

What do you mean .

Even rookies can fight like men of experience .

Aninstant creation of genius  and this training kernel willprovide more than enough data to formulate such a program .

You're the most impressive collection offreaks outside of FOXHOUND .

The project was already underway when I sunk that tankeralong with your old man two years ago .

Throwing your husband inthe brig was a part of it too .

Except for the appearance of the real Solid Snake .

All our misfortune was  just a part of their project .

H-how could .

You're no Lady Luck .

You have nothing we didn't give you .

Do you know why no bullet could hit you .

It wasn't magic or someNew Age mumbo-jumbo .

Certainly wasn't your psychic talents .

Itwas all staged by the Patriots .

You were being shielded by the electromagnetic weapons technologythat the Patriots developed .

Your Dead Cell comrades loved yourfather and husband  we needed a pathetic wretch like you tokeep them focused .

You've been our puppet all along   just likeOlga .

You were hamming it up as the tragic heroine thanks to thescript that the Patriots wrote for you .

Pure self-indulgence you couldn't get enough of the drama .

Thought I got her in the heart .

Your heart's on the right .

Fortune fires another shot and gets the same results .

Your luck's run out .

This is the little gizmo .

There is no such thing as miracles orthe super-natural only cutting-edge technology .

How's this then .

You idiot . Get the hell away from there .

What the . Impossible .

She is Lady Luck .

My name is Helena Dolph Jackson .

I've been waiting for this .

It can't be .

You were inside Ocelot .

Yes  a sleeper in the arm of a Patriots' spy .

It was you two years ago .

I was controlling him .

I'm off to bury the Patriots for good .

You know where they are .

Why do you think I choose Ocelot as my host .

Time to say goodbye .

It's a good way to go .

What are you laughing at .

Do you know what day it is today .

George Washington took office as the firstpresident of the United States of America 200 years ago today .

We were going to declare  anotherindependence  the dawn of a new nation  here .

All you want is power  at any cost .

Everything that's aboutto be wiped out by their digital censorship .

We're all born with an expiration date .

Life is nothing but a grace period  forturning our genetic material into the next generation .

The data of life is transferred from parent to child .

That's howit works .

Cloned from our fatherwith the ability to reproduce conveniently engineered out .

What isour legacy if we cannot pass the torch .

Proof of our existence a mark of some sort .

All I want is to be remembered .

And we will become the"Sons of Liberty" .

We're still here .

How's that possible .

The AI was destroyed .

To begin with  we're not what you'd call  human .

Over thepast two hundred years  A kind of consciousness formed layer bylayer in the crucible of the White House .

It's not unlike the waylife started in the oceans four billion years ago .

We are the very discipline and morality thatAmericans invoke so often .

Don't you know that our plans have your interests  not ours in mind .

The mapping of the human genome was completed early this century .

But there are things not covered by genetic information .

What do you mean .

Genes don't contain any record of human history .

Is it something that should not be passed on .

Should thatinformation be left at the mercy of nature .

We've always kept records of our lives .

But not all the information was inherited by later generations .

Are you telling me it's not .

The digital society furthers human flaws and selectively rewardsthe development of convenient half-truths .

Just look at thestrange juxtapositions of morality around you .

Billions spent on new weapons in order to humanely murder otherhumans .

Rights of criminals are given more respect than the privacy oftheir victims .

Everyone grows up beingtold the same thing .

Be nice to other people .

But beat out the competition .

Believe in yourself and you will succeed .

But it's obvious from the start that only a few can succeed .

You exercise your right to "freedom" and this is the result .

Allrhetoric to avoid conflict and protect each other from hurt .

Theuntested truths spun by different interests continue to churn andaccumulate in the sandbox of political correctness and valuesystems .

The different cardinal truths neither clash nor mesh .

Not even natural selection can take place here .

The world isbeing engulfed in "truth .

And this is the way the world ends .

We're trying to stop that from happening .

It's our responsibility as rulers .

And you think you're qualified to decide what's necessary andnot .

That's what it means to create context .

I'll decide for myself what to believe and what to pass on .

But is that even your own idea .

Or something Snake told you .

You lack thequalifications to exercise free will .

Does something like a "self" exist inside of you .

That which you call "self" serves as nothing more than a mask tocover your own being .

Another possibility is that "self" is a concept you convenientlyborrowed under the logic that it would endow you with some senseof strength .

Would you prefer that someone else tell you .

Do you feel lost .

Why not try a bit ofsoul-searching .

It's not my fault .

It's not your fault .

Leaving behind in an instant the so-called "truth" you onceembraced .

Should someone like that be able to decide what is "truth" .

Should someone like you even have the right to decide .

You've done nothing but abuse your freedom .

You don't deserve to be free .

We're not the ones smothering the world .

The individual is supposed to be weak .

But far from powerless a single person has the potential to ruin the world .

And the age of digitized communication has given even more powerto the individual .

Too much power for an immature species .

We are your guardians after all .

You want to control human thought .

Anything can be quantified nowadays .

That's what thisexercise was designed to prove .

The S3 Plan does not stand for Solid Snake Simulation .

What itdoes stand for is Selection for Societal Sanity .

The S3 is a system for controlling human will and consciousness .

What you experienced was the final test of its effectiveness .

You heard what President Johnson said .

The Arsenal's "GW" system is the key to their supremacy .

The objective of this exercise was to establish such a method .

We used Shadow Moses as a paradigm for the exercise .

I wonder if you would have preferred a fantasy setting .

We chose that backdrop because of its extreme circumstances .

Itwas an optimal test for S3's crisis management capacity .

Solidusraised plenty of other child soldiers .

Do you know why we choseyou over them .

It was because you were the only one who refused to acknowledgethe past .

But you turn your back on everything you don't like .

Yes  Rose can attest to that .

You refused to see me for what I was .

You never made a conscious attempt to reach out tome .

The only time you did was when I gave you no choice but todo so .

I was just trying not to .

It occurred to you to do nothingbut look out for yourself .

I was never part of the picture .

This is why wechose you .

The exercise is aresounding success .

Didn't I tell you that GW was still incomplete .

The real objective was ensuring that we couldgenerate and manipulate them .

I think that'senough talk .

It's time for the final exercise .

Think again . I'm through doing what I'm told .

Aren't you forgetting something .

The termination of vital signals from your nanomachines means thedeath of Olga's child .

Not to mention the death of Rose .

She'swired the same way .

Rose  does she actually exist .

You have to beLIEve me .

It will be a fight to the death .

Or you  Solidus'creation .

Our beloved monsters  enjoy yourselves .

My clone brothers and I are called monsters replicates of evil genes .

We need to decidewhich monstrosity will have the privilege of survival .

Because I needed to know whether we  were really someone else'screation .

You'll stay in the endless loop your own double helix .

It's time we were both free .

I have other reasons for wanting you dead .

But this is where it gets interesting .

You're nothing but mere weapons .

No different fromfighter jets or tanks .

The old model destroyed four years ago was "REX" .

The new amphibious model is "RAY" .

Both of these are the same as the code names used by the U .

Stop it . I'm not a weapon .

Do you know the code name the U .

Armed Forces usedfor the Japanese fighter "Raiden" .

Both of you are just weapons to be used and thrown away .

Just weapons to be used on the battlefield .

Just pawns in a gameexactly as you said .

Who am I really .

No one quite knows who or what they are .

The memories you have and the role you were assigned are burdensyou have to carry .

It doesn't matter if they were real or not .

There's no such thing in the world as absolute reality .

Most ofwhat they call real is actually fiction .

What you think you seeis only as real as your brain tells you it is .

Then what am I supposed to believe in .

What am I going to leavebehind when I'm through .

We can tell other people about  having faith .

What we had faithin .

What we found important enough to fight for .

You can find your own name .

And whatever you choose will be you .

I don't know if I can .

I know you didn't have much in terms of choices this time .

You mean start over .

It's for you to decide .

It's up to you .

I'll pick my own name .

I'll find something worth passing on .

They taught me some good things too .

We've inherited freedom from all those who've fought forit .

We all have the freedom to spread the word .

Do you know where Liquid went .

I put a transmitter on his RAY .

Did he head for the Patriots .

But I have a feeling they gave Ocelot a bogus location tobegin with .

We have a better lead .

This contains a list of all the Patriots .

But Ocelot took it .

The one we gave you wasn't the real thing .

This virus is coded to destroy only a specific part of GW namely the information about the Patriots identity .

I get it  analyze the code and you can probably find out wherethey operate .

And people you need to talk to .

Can I ask you something .

Who am I really .

I wouldn't know .

Do you remember this place .

This is where we first met .

I remember now  Todayis the day I met you .

I think I found something topass along to the future .

He said all living things want theirgenes to live on .

Are you talking about the baby .

But genes aren't the only thing you pass on .

There are toomany things that aren't written into our DNA .

It's up to us toteach that to our children .

What kind of things .

We'll tell them everything .

Is that a  proposal .

This is for your ears  only .

Life isn't just about passing on your genes .

We can leave behindmuch more than just DNA .

That's what Ilive for .

We have all the magic of thedigital age to do that with .

Building the future and keeping thepast alive are one and the same thing .

I've finished going over that disc .

Did you find the Patriots' list .

It contains the personal data of twelve people .

What's going on around here .

I don't know .

They're already dead .

All twelve of them .

When did it happen .

Tell me a little more about Dead Cell .

Dead Cell was a shadow unit within the SEALS organization .

They were originally put together to check the nation'smilitary security system .

The unit was the brainchild ofex-president George Sears .

Dead Cell was a secret unitpositioned at the opposite end of anti-terrorist outfits suchas Delta Force and SEALS .

Were they always a .

They got weird when Colonel Jackson  Fortune's husband was sent to jail .

He misappropriated government funds .

Sounds like he deserved it .

That's what everybody else thought .

Except for the members ofDead Cell .

They felt the Colonel was falsely accused .

But they never managedto reopen the case .

Was there any truth to their claim .

He was being held at Leavenworth .

The Colonel's dead .

Apparentlyhe lost the will to live and died in prison .

The members of DeadCell snapped with the loss of their leader .

They underwent aradical change and became uncontrollable .

And that's why they undertook this terrorist operation .

Seems as good a reason as any .

Vamp is a member of Dead Cell .

But I guess you know that by now .

That was how heacquired a taste for blood .

So that's why they call him "Vamp" .

Vamp isn't for vampire .

It's because he's bisexual .

Fortune's old man .

But Fortune and Vamp .

Not bad for a rookie .

There's more to their relationship than that .

But Vamp was her father's lover .

Would it have been better if it was with her mother .

I don'treally think they care what you think .

Focus on the mission .

But he seemed to know you .

I told you that DeadCell is a group of madmen .

I wouldn't take anything they sayvery seriously .

What do you know about that strange woman .

She's the Dead Cell leader .

Her real name isHelena Dolph Jackson .

She got the name because bullets seem to veer away from herin battle .

People have heard her say that her fortune in battlewas payback for the lousy luck she's had in life .

These eventswere followed by her mother's suicide  the loss of a husbandand the idea of a convict in the family apparently took her overthe edge .

Fortune was three months pregnant at the time and theshock of her mother's death led to the loss of her child .

Add tothis her husband's death in prison a few months later and .

Now why's that .

Do I look psychic .

My best guess is revenge .

I heard that shefirmly believed that her husband was framed .

She'sthe widow of Dead Cell's former beloved leader .

Vamp and Fortune's father .

I thought Vamp and Fortune .

That guidebook served as thebasis of his eventually piecing together an atomic bomb .

Sohe went on to focus all his energy on explosives .

He scorned thereality that surrounded him and instead chose to embrace a worldthat would easily grant him recognition .

Most of the students at Indian Head flunkout of what is truly a hellish curriculum .

It was there that he apparently got into some trouble .

She's the leader of ColonelGurlukovich's private army that's been wandering around the BigShell .

Those men were gathered by Colonel Gurlukovich .

Her father's name was widely respected throughout theold Soviet regime and he was the goal of just about everymilitary man .

Why would a respected soldier become a leader of thosecut-throats .

The collapse of the republic resulted in a lot of unemployedsoldiers .

The Colonel took these men in .

I assume thatthe revolt figured into his reconstruction plans for the Sovietregime .

I also heard that Ocelot  Liquid's right-hand man was an old friend of the Colonel's back in the old days of theSoviet Union .

You sound like you've met her .

You really should quit .

Remember what Naomisaid about lung cancer rates Everyone knows that it's a dangeroussubstance .

This is the new kind that has almost no second-hand smoke .

Itwon't bother anyone .

You have Pentazemin in your inventory .

Take it when you have a tough shot ahead with thesniper rifle and you need to minimize shakiness .

But I guess youdon't have one of those yet .

Drugs are mostly about placebo effect .

You're more naive than I thought .

Just like the old days .

You sure you got it right .

If you say so .

The meaninghere is  hold on a sec  that you can only survive as long asyou're a part of the natural order of things .

You rememberpre-ripped jeans .

What do jeans have to do with nature and order .

That extra hour to do anything you like withevery autumn .

Did they even have daylight savings back then .

Of course not . They knew how to save time .

We're the ones thatneed to be tricked into it .

Let's not waste it on idle questions .

So make good use of the Codec .

Look  this stuff seems nothing like what Mei Ling used to talkabout .

So feel free to present a counterpointif you don't agree with what I'm saying .

Do you know the saying "One forgets the hurt once the wound hashealed" .

Did you say something .

Is that really all it means .

The concept of so-called Original Sin .

I thought the idea of Original Sin was that you had towork even harder at being good because you were born evil .

You know the story about Achilles and Paris .

The moral here is er  something about his heel .

So don't get complacent .

The missioncan turn around and get you .

Wasn't Paris a person .

Do you know the saying "Those who walk a hundred leagues thinknot that their journey is half ended until the ninetieth league" .That means .

This seems to be getting more and more random .

Of course it's not going to seethe big blue sea the lack of sunlight alone will kill it prettyquick .

Which doesn't make them too useful .

Action iswhat matters . I think .

You stay out of their sight .

Why would aliens be in an old Chinese proverb .

Everyone knows they've been visiting us for thousands of years .

What a crock . What did you do with that little cheat sheet I madeyou .

How could you do that . You know how busy I am and you .

It's not what you think .

What's going on over there .

What happened to Mei Ling .

She got mad and went offline .

What did you do .

The AK can be fitted with a suppressor .

I see you're wearing the enemy field uniform(B .

Lookspretty good on you .

It's bad enough that I'm dripping with sweatwondering when somebody's gonna see through my disguise .

And quit being so sensitive .

At least your walkwon't give you away .

Whaddya mean my walk .

The cardboard box that you have is ideal for fooling yourenemies .

It's a very important tool for infiltration missions .

I can't begin to count the number of agents whose liveswere saved by a cardboard box .

You mean everyone's using them .

I'm not exaggerating when I say the success of your missionhinges on how you use that cardboard box .

Handle it with care or itwon't be of much use to you .

I've lost a couple thanksto you .

I see you've still got those cigarettes I gave you .

I quit a long time ago .

That's a tranquilizer gun with a sound suppressor .

The time in whichthe tranquilizer takes effect depends on where you hit yourtarget .

I think I've seen this modified gun before .

Pentazemin is abenzodiazepine anti-depressant used in the treatment of disorderssuch as depression and autonomic imbalance .

The result is a steady set of hands .

Pentazemin does not prevent seasickness .

What are you talking about .

You've got rations .

Rations are military food provisions capableof LIFE recovery .

Select a ration in the menu display and pressthe Confirmation button for LIFE recovery .

Field rations are not just emergency food .

Military's Cooking Laboratory .

What's on your mind .

I prefer rations over Rose's home cooking .

I see the old man set you up with a Sensor A unit .

The detected C4 appears on radar as acloud-like shape .

The cloud indicates the rough location of theexplosive .

This sensor looks like it's been specially tuned .

It'sbeen specially modified to sniff out the signature odor of C4 combined with Fatman's special perfume that he uses to identifyhis work .

That's why it won't respond to any of the C4 that we'veset up .

That pistol you have is a SOCOM .

It's a 45-caliber OffensiveHandgun designed for the American Special Ops Command .

A suppressor can be attached to the SOCOM to silence gunshots .

Let me talk to Emma .

What do you want .

Why did you get involved in weapons development .

A lot of peoplewill get hurt .

I didn't have a choice .

Don't lie to me . The pool .

You left me and took the easy way out .

That's not true .

I left the house because .

You're a criminal . Just like me .

I know what you did . You manipulated our account on thenetwork .

Look at what you're doing now .

I'm just applying my knowledge for the cause .

The cause .

What cause .

I can't carry a gun andface the enemy .

That's why I do what I do best .

You'd make a great lawyer .

Out of my way . Let me talk .

You want to talk to Otacon .

I'll put him on .

Let me talk to him .

Otacon's busy right now .

You'll have to settle for me .

O-okay .

Now what do you want .

Science doesn't exist to benefit the world .

Then what is it for .

Science is for the individual .

That sounds pretty greedy .

You can't realize your dreams without greed .

And what's your dream .

Take revenge on Hal .

I'm gonna make him regret the day he left me .

I'm going to makehim realize he was wrong .

Of all the idiotic .

I think that's enough .

It's my goal . My reason for being alive . Hal is wrong .He's only being used by his country . He's pitiful . Even you guysare using him . Me .

I'll pretend this conversation never happened .

You're speaking your mind .

Just leave it atthat .

You ready to go .

Drop zone still showing a high precious mass .

Put out that cigar .

Connecting oxygen hose to interior connector .

Ten minutes to dropoff .

He said put out your cigar and put on yourmask .

You'll be falling at 130 miles per hour .

Try not go get frostbitefrom the wind chill .

One minute to dropoff .

Ten seconds to droppoff .

Spread your wings and fly . God be with you .

The head of the CIA hasfinally given us the greenlight for the Virtuous Mission .

The future of our FOX unit depends onit .

If it succeeds we'll be officially organized into the unit .

Sounds like some kind of initation ritual .

Don't get cocky .

This isn't a training op .

So what exactly is this wonderful mission .

His name is NikolaiStepanovich Sokolov .

Sokolov is said to be the manmost responsible for the multi-engine cluster used in that rocket .

So why'd he want to defect .

It seems he'd become afraid of his own creations .

Call it a crisis of conscience .

One of his conditions was that his family was also tobe taken safely to the West .

We used a mole to get the family outfirst and succeeded in sneaking Sokolov over the Berlin Wall shortlyafterwards .

I was the one who conducted the operation .

The security on the Eastern side was still full of holes back then .

It tookhim two weeks and over 600 miles to get from the research facility inthe Soviet Union to Berlin .

He was in no condition to say anythingcoherent .

And it was only a week later that we had something muchbigger on our hands .

The Cuban Missile Crisis .

President Kennedy received word that the Sovietswere in the process of deploying intermediate-range ballisticmissiles in Cuba .

The president demanded that the Soviets dismantleand remove the missiles .

Soviet transport ships carrying missilescontinued on course toward Cuba .

US and Soviet forces went on alertfor an all-out nuclear war .

Frantic negotiations were conductedthrough the UN's Emergency Security Council and unofficial channelsto end the hair-trigger standoff .

And so the worldavoided a nuclear holocaust .

You mean the one where the US agreed to remove its IRBMs from Turkey .

The Jupiter IRBMs deployed in Turkey were obsolete and we weregoing to get rid of them anyway .

They had no strategic valuewhatsoever to either the US or the Russians .

So what did the Russians really want .

They wanted us to return Sokolov .

You mean the Soviets pulled out of Cuba just to get their hands onSokolov .

What the hell was he working on .

At the time we had no idea .

We were running out of time .

It waseither give up Sokolov or risk full-scale nuclear war .

President Kennedy gave into Khrushchev's demand .

Sokolov kept on screaming "Save me ."until he disappeared from my sight .

He was taken back to the research facility and forced tocontinue working on the weapon in question under KGB supervision .

What kind of weapon is it .

Something to do with space rockets .

I guess you're right .

We don't know the details but it appears tobe a new kind of nuclear device .

For a year now the Soviets havebeen conducting frequent nuclear tests at Semipaiatinsk .

Something to do with the weapon I assume .

We're talking about a secret weapon so big that Khrushchev wasready to pull out of Cuba to get it back .

Is Sokolov still in the facility .

Nice name for a Virtuous mission .

They moved him there just recently .

Apparently they're conducting a field test of the weapon .

But it'sour best chance to get him back .

This mission would never have beenpossible if he were still in the research facility .

This is our lastchance .

The clock is ticking .

A recovery balloon will be dropped at that point .

Helium willbe pumped into the balloon to inflate it .

The process takes about 20minutes .

The Fulton Surface-to-Air Recovery System .

I'm familiar with thetheory .

It has been combat-proven .

Do you think Sokolov's up to it .

The shock will be less than during a parachute jump .

And the arm canhandle up to 500 pounds .

She's equipped with two 6-barrel 20 millimeter Vulcan cannons aswell as two 40 millimeter machine guns .

Sounds like she could hold her own against a battalion of tanks .

Home in time for dinner .

But if anything goes wrong .

Your code name for this mission will be NakedSnake .

I'll be referring to you as Snake from now on .

You are not tomention your real name .

You don't like snakes .

What do you mean .

I'm glad to hear that .

You might not have a choice .

What should I call you .

I'll be Tom .

Call me Major Tom .

This will be a sneaking mission .

You must not be seen by the enemy .

This kindof infiltration is the FOX unit's speciality .

Now I see why you asked me if I like snakes .

You've been issued a knife and a tranquilizer gun .

Use them tohunt for food .

You'll also find some medicinal supplies in yourbackpack .

Do you knowwhere it is .

I can see it from here .

It's stuck on a branch .

I'll be monitoring your progress overthe radio .

I'll give you a CALL if I needto talk to you .

Go get your backpack .

Your available weaponswill be displayed in a window in the upper-left .

Got it . Use the Survival Viewer 'BACKPACK' .

Survival is fundamental to this mission .

Keep an eye on your stamina soyou don't run out .

You can use either your tranquilizer gun or yourknife to hunt .

My only weapon is a Mk22 Hush Puppy tranquilizer gun .

It's been fitted with its own suppressor .

The suppressor's durabilityis shown in the icon .

I have to find my own weapons and equipment .

Solo covert actions are standard FOX operation procedure .

You can'tleave any traces of your presence .

Your presence in enemy territory is already aviolation of international conventions of warfare .

There aren'tsupposed to be any American soldiers in Russia .

It could spark aninternational incident .

You can't let anyone see you .

You can't letthe enemy know you're there .

This is a stealth mission .

There'll be no rescue ifyou're captured .

The military and the U .

I'm afraid so .

You've been given a 'fake death' pill for thatpurpose .

How generous of you .

Use it if you're taken prisoner by the enemy .

It'll send you intoa state of false death for a short time .

So how do I come backto life .

Just take the revival pill .

You mean that thing they put in my tooth before the mission .

That's the one .

I'll keep it in mind .

I guess this means I can't count on any reinforcements .

This mission rests entirely in your hands .

A real one-man army .

I'll introduce them to you .

I'm Para-Medic .

Nice to meet you .

As in a medic who comes in by parachute .

Aren't you going to tell me your real name .

And they call you Jack for short .

You're a regular Captain Nemo .

A name means nothing on the battlefield .

What's your name .

She's also in charge of recording your mission data .

So saving lets me record my mission data .

It also records the state of your health .

She's going to be   FOX's mission advisor .

She also helped me plan this mission .

She and I were at SAStogether .

How many years has it been .

Let me hear your voice .

You've lost weight .

You can tell just by the sound of my voice .

Of course I can .

I know all about you .

What's that supposed to mean .

I was on a top-secret mission .

You didn't need me anymore .

But there were still so many things I wanted you to teach me .

I taught you all I could .

The rest you needed to learnon your own .

But what about how to think like a soldier .

How to think like a soldier .

I can't teach you that .

What's most important is spirit .

They're thesame thing .

I can't teach you how to think .

You'll just have tofigure it out for yourself .

Politics determine who you face on the battlefield .

They change along with the times .

Is that why you abandoned me .

It had nothing to do with you .

I wason a top-secret mission .

A soldier has to follow whatever orders he'sgiven .

It's not his place to question why .

But you're looking for areason to fight .

That's doublytrue if he's a career soldier .

Right and wrong have no place in hismission .

He has no enemies and no friends .

Youfollow the orders you're given .

That's what being a soldier is .

I do whatever I have to do to get the job done .

I don't think aboutpolitics .

It means devoting yourself to your country .

I follow the President and the top brass .

I'm ready to die for them ifnecessary .

The President and the top brass won't be there forever .

People aren't the ones who dictate the missions .

People's values change over time .

And so do the leadersof a country .

So there's no such thing as an enemy in absolute terms .

And that's the way a soldier's supposed to think .

The only thing we can believe in with absolute certainty .

But do me a favor .

It suits you well .

The legendary unit that The Boss put together duringWorld War II was a snake .

I can't think of anyone else I'd rather have with me .

It's good to hear your voice again .

But this is the jungle .

Survival is going tobe key .

Those CQC techniques I taught you are sure to come in handy .

I've been in the Green Berets forthe past few years .

I'm probably pretty rusty .

I'll be here to help you remember .

I'll be supporting you over theradio .

Next to the Major .

The Boss is communicating with us by radio from aboard a Permit--class submarine in the Arctic Ocean .

Call me if you need my advice on battletechniques .

Your mission is to retrieve Dr .

Sokolov is being heldin an abandoned factory located to the north of your currentposition .

Avoid heavy combat and don't let anyone see you .

Don'tforget that this is a stealth mission .

They're probably KGB torops sent to guard Sokolov .

AK-47s and grenades .

We can't let the Kremlin find out that the CIAand the American government are involved .

Contact with the enemy isstrictly prohibited .

This is astealth mission .

This place is a dump .

I can't see Sokolov from here .

Thesecurity is pretty tight .

There are sentries posted around theperimeter .

I wonder how many are inside .

Your mission is to bring Sokolov back alive .

He mustnot be exposed to any kind of danger .

Do not approach Sokolov whilein the Alert Phase .

You mean there's more .

Beginning my approach to the target .

You must be Sokolov .

Are you one of Volgin's men .

You'll never get it from me .

I'm a CIA agent .

I've come to escort you back to the otherside of the Iron Curtain .

I have a message from him .

What does it mean .

It means he's a man of his word .

But we've got no time for this .

Colonel Volgin of GRU .

You in the West know him as Thunderbolt .

He's a member of the army's extremist faction .

A man who seeks toseize control of the motherland .

But the failure of hisagricultural policies has put him in a precarious position .

President Kennedy's assassination .

The mastermind behind this plot is Colonel Volgin of theGRU .

But that is not enough to satisfy him .

The intelligencesays that they are going to make their move during the test .

Then the soldiers outside .

They wouldn't need that many men just to keep me inside .

I'm sure of it .

You must get me out of here before then .

Leave it to me .

Where did you learn to speak it .

America is truly a frightening country .

Sokolov is safe with me .

He's doing fine .

Now hurry up and get Sokolov to the recoverypoint . We'll rendezvous with you there .

What about the sentries .

I had to kill them .

But no one will know wewere involved .

What about The Boss .

We lost contact with The Boss some time ago .

It's probably just a weak signal .

Just hurry and get Sokolov out ofthere .

So this is the legendary Boss .

We meet at last .

That's Major Ocelot to you .

Now get out of here .

An ocelot never lets his prey escape .

What is that stance .

I see what you weretrying to do .

But testing a technique you only heard about in the middleof battle wasn't very smart .

You were asking to have your gun jam onyou .

You tend to twist your elbow to absorb the recoil .

That's more ofa revolver technique .

But that was some fancy shooting .

I've run into a few snags .

Sokolov was being guarded by the KGB and hunted by GRU .

I don't like it .

Something about this whole thing stinks .

You'd better hurry .

We're counting on you .

Those men were from the Ocelot unit .

The best GRU has to offer .

They're coming for me .

I'll get you out of here .

And we've got someof the best backup we could ask for .

That's what they were making you build .

It can launch nuclear missiles from that kind of terrain .

And without support from friendly units .

A nuclear-equipped tank capable of operating solo .

It won't be truly finisheduntil we complete Phase 2 .

Phase 2 .

The weapon's true form .

The end of the Cold War .

And then the age of fear will truly begin .

I had no choice but to cooperate . I didn't want to die .

I wanted tosee my wife and child again in America .

What are you doing here .

Sokolov comes with me .

I have waited long for this day .

We will fight with you once more .

It's raining blood .

Welcome to my country .

I'm defecting to the Soviet Union .

Sokolov is a little gift for mynew hosts .

Another one of your disciples .

Are we taking him with us .

This is one is still just a child .

Too pure for us Cobras .

Hehas not yet found an emotion to carry into battle .

What are you talking about .

Think you can pull the trigger .

He's seen my face .

We can't let him live .

He's my apprentice .

I'll take care of him .

The new blood has been rejected .

Are we done here .

My place is with them now .

You've got to get those wounds treated .

Para-Medic .

Just relax and it'll all be over before you know it .

Stay with me . I've seen people in worse shape before .

Think youcan handle it .

We'll talk about that later .

First we've got to get you patched up .

If you select 'CURE' you can start the treatment .

They need to be fixedusing surgical treatment .

Move the healing cursor with the leftanalog stick to the affected part of your body .

We're coming to get you now .

Just stay where you are .

Can you set it up .

What are we going to do with the girl .

Apparently she's Sokolov's woman .

She's a nice catch .

I'll take her .

A Kiss of Death .

We might be able to use her .

Shall we take her back to the base .

We have no further use for Sokolov's researchfacility .

I think it's time I gave this marvelous new toy a try .

But it won't be me that pulled the trigger .

It will be our friend theAmerican defector .

You're going to nuke your fellow Russians .

Currently flying over the Arctic Ocean .

Arriving at the designated drone launchpoint .

Drone oil pressure and voltage are nominal .

Payload oxygen supplyis nominal .

Power supply to payload antifreeze system shows no problems .

All systems go for drone detachment .

Airspace Securityhas gotten tighter since we were last here .

We can't get as close tothe ground as we did during the Virtuous mission .

So instead we'llbe using one of our newest weapons .

This is our last chance .

Would you do me a favor and tell the suits about visiting hours .

I'llnever get better with them assaulting me day and night with theirquestions .

Must be part of the top brass' inquiry .

More like an interrogation .

They're just looking for a scapegoat .

Let's just say neither one of us is going to be made a nationalhero out of this .

Does this mean FOX is going to die .

This fox is still one step ahead of the hounds .

The reason Icame to see you today .

What are you talking about .

The situation has changed .

We've still got a chance to come outof this one alive .

What kind of chance .

Don't get too excited .

Thismorning I had a meeting with the CIA .

They decided when they're going to execute us .

It was a hotline call from Khrushchev to President Johnson .

From the head of the Soviet Union .

Does any of this soundfamiliar to you .

But my power is not as great as itonce was .

I should have contacted you myself .

Did you know that one of oursoldiers defected to your country a week ago .

So you haven't heard then .

The man who arranged the defection was aGRU colonel by the name of Yevgeny Borisovitch Volgin .

Of the Brezhnev faction .

Who was this soldier .

Her name is The Boss .

She's a living legend .

The mother of your Special Forces .

And she took two miniature nuclear shellsalong with her .

The Boss took two miniature nuclear shells .

I'm afraid so .

The'Davy Crockett' Atomic Battle Group Delivery System was completedtwo years ago .

But serious problems were found with the launcher'srange and precision .

Although they were mass-produced they've neverbeen deployed in battle .

I can only offer you my deepest condolences over this terribletragedy .

So The Boss with Colonel Volgin's help stole two experimentalnuclear shells and took them with her as a gift when she defected .

We were not involved in any way .

Then what was a US military aircraft doing on our radar screen .It was clearly in violation of our airspace .

And yet you say itwas not acting under your orders .

You expect me to believe that this was all the work of a singlesoldier .

I don't know what else to tell you .

The army insists that this is all a ploy on your part .

I've said it once and I'll say it again .

And I would like dearly to believe you .

Iwill need some kind of proof that was not the action of theAmerican government .

You have one week .

You must catch The Bossyourselves and recover the remaining nuclear device .

Prove to me that thisis not merely another one of your tricks .

The Boss should be close to Colonel Volgin .

How about a littlecoaction .

I would not expect too much if I were you .

The political situationhere in unstable .

And Colonel Volgin is a member of the Brezhnevfaction which seeks to topple my government .

You haveonly one week .

What is that supposed to mean .

Call it a modest gentleman'sagreement to ensure our continued relationship .

Then I will be unable to restrain the military .

I will be ousted .

A nuclear attack on the United States .

And eliminating The Boss ourselves will prove America's innocence .

The higher-ups have decided that you're the only one capableof pulling this off .

You were her last apprentice .

There's no choice .

Are the Russians going to be helping us .

The KGB has promised to lend us one of their communicationssatellites so that you and I can talk to each other .

They've also put us in touch with a couple of insiders .

There was a defection in September 1960 .

You mean the two NSA code breakers who went over to the Soviet Union .

Their code names are ADAMand EVA .

I've been told that ADAM has infiltrated Volgin's ranks .

We've also arranged for him to provide you with an escape route .

Control unidentified aircraft detected .

I'm about to loseit .

Glad to see you landed safely .

I got blown pretty far off target .

This mission will be code-named 'Operation Snake Eater' .

Don't forget about Colonel Volgin .

I'm not a hired killer .

But that was the Kremlin's demand .

You mean it wasn't just a request .

What's it to us if theKhrushchev regime is threatened by the colonel and his faction .

And what are the CIA's demands .

Our priorities are the rescue of Sokolov and the destruction of theShagohod .

I'm changing my code name .

It turns out 'Tom' wasn't the mostauspicious choice .

What do you mean .

Did you ever see the movie 'The Great Escape .' It came out lastyear .

Must have missed that one .

The prisoners dig three tunnels as partof their plan .

But the Nazis find two of the tunnels before they'refinished .

The prisoners succeeded in escaping by using the lastremaining tunnel .

You used the name of the tunnel they escaped in as your codename because you thought it would bring you good luck .

At least that was the plan .

But I got the name wrong .

The one they escaped in was Harry .

I watched the movie again just to make sure .

Major Zero it is .

We'll start over from square one .

And there's one more person on your support team .

He's an expert on the latest in weapons andequipment technology .

You'll be going up against some the world'smost advanced weaponry when you infiltrate the research facility .

The same factory Sokolov was being held in last week .

Meet up with ADAM first .

He's cleared the way for you torescue Sokolov .

How will I know this ADAM guy when I see him .

You'll know once you reach the factory .

The whole area's beenpolluted by the fallout from that nuclear blast .

No one else woulddare come close .

You've been equipped with a .45 for this mission .

I thought standard FOX procedure was procure on site weaponsacquisition .

The circumstances are different this time .

You're now on anofficial mission for the United States government .

It will benecessary to make your presence known to a certain extent .

Keep that in mind and proceed with extremecaution .

Looks like death wasn't ready for you yet .

That arm still hurt .

What are you doing here .

Go home . GRU and my sons are waiting up ahead .

I'm not your boss anymore .

There's nothing for you here .

Goback to your boss .

There's no need to prove that you are virtuoushere .

This isn't America .

That should stir things up a bit .

You'd better hurry .

The border is60 miles south of here .

You ought to be able to run that far .

Why'd you defect .

I didn't .

What's it going to be .

Yourduty to your unit .

Or your personal feelings .

You don't know thetruth yet .

I don't expectyou to forgive me .

Just look at that bandanna .

I was ambushed by The Boss .

You were what .

The drone's been shot to hell .

It's up in flames .

That's not good .

Enemy scouts are going to come looking for you .

But what was The Boss doing here in the first place .There's got to be a leak somewhere .

I lost my gun .

That's not the problem .

I know that all too well .

She's your enemy and your objective .

And now you tell me she's myenemy .

Hurry to the factory where ADAM is waiting .

Scouts haveprobably already been sent out to investigate the explosion .

That means you've got no chance of winningin a battle situation .

Sorry I'm late .

They'll hear us .

Are you the agent they sent .

I thought you were supposed to be a man .

ADAM couldn't make it .

Who are the Patriots .

Who are the Patriots .

The name's EVA .

This wasn't part of the plan .

What happened to ADAM .

What's your code name .

What happened to ADAM .

Colonel Volgin is a very suspicious man .

He decided ADAM wasn'tthe right person for this mission .

Because I can do things he can't .

I heard you used to be a code breaker for the NSA .

It packs quite a punch .

Nice to have when you're on a bike .

Bet you've never seen that technique in the West .

The one I've got for you is American made .

Do you like it .

The feeding ramp is polished to a mirror sheen .

The slide's beenreinforced .

And the interlock with the frame is tightened for addedprecision .

The thumb safety isextended to make it easier on the finger .

A long-type trigger withnon-slip grooves .

The base of the trigger guard'sbeen filed down for a higher grip .

Where'dyou get something like this .

I grabbed it from a Western munitions armory .

A disguise to make you look like a scientist .

He's being forced to continue his work on the Shagohod .

They've got a whole army of scientists there developing newweapons .

Can we get Sokolov out of there .

Tell how to get to the lab .

The safest way in is from the rear .

You'll come to a heliport used for shippingmaterials .

Descend into that area and you'll reach a cave .

Move through thecave and you will arrive at a mangrove swamp .

Make your way through the warehouse and you'll come out justsouth of the lab .

And just what are you doing there .

Let's get going .

You must be tired .

Why don't you take a little rest .

I'll be fine .

You'll never make it in your condition .

It's a jungle out there .

There'sstill an hour before dawn .

It's dangerous to be out in the jungle at nightwithout a guide .

I have to get back .

I can't be gone for too long .

They'll start tosuspect something .

My orders are to provide you with information .

I'll do something special for you .

I'llstand watch until dawn .

Now be a good boy and lie down .

What's the matter .

I don't know you well enough to trust you .

How well do you have to know me to trust me .

I don't know if I can trust anybody .

You should get some sleep .

Sleeping allows you togain back stamina naturally .

So doyourself a favor and take a nap .

What's the matter .

We can use this to get to the basement .

Don't go dying on me now .

I've been waiting for this moment .

This bitch is wearing perfume .

I see you've got yourself a single action army .

There'll be no accidents this time .

You call that an accident .

It wouldn't have happened if youhadn't been showing off .

What did you say .

But the engraving gives you notactical advantage whatsoever .

Unless you were planning to auction itoff as a collector's item .

And you're forgetting one more very basicthing .

You don't have what it takes to kill me .

That thing only carries 6 shots .

The Makarov carries 8 .

You have toget a feel for how many you have left .

This is a high class-weapon .

He's still young .

You'll regret stopping me .

Did you miss me .

Did you make it without trouble .

No one saw me .

So you're back with Volgin .

In a matter of speaking .

What about The Boss .

The Boss and I get along pretty well through .

I guess wetraitors have a lot in common .

Why would anyone want to defect .

Betraying your country like that .

Are you talking about The Boss .

Why'd you do it .

Weren't you born and raised in America .

In a small rural town .

Until I went to work for theNSA .

What did you see .

What was it that made you want to change sides .

You wouldn't believe me even if I told you .

I saw the universe .

Not the actual universe .

The universe as the intelligence community seesit .

I realized that the gravity of this universe was holding me back .

People and countries are both changed by their environment .

That sounds like what The Boss was saying .

There's a world of difference between this country and America .

But it'sonly a difference of position .

A difference of perspective .

Coming heremade me realize something .

Half of what I'd been told was a complete andutter lie .

It's hidden in the lies .

I've been trained to make even the most severe falsehoodsound like the honest truth .

Even if it is a lie .

I'll have to remember that .

Looks like The Boss' info was right .

Twicenow you've made me taste bitter defeat .

No one to get in our way .

They prefer to hunt alone .

I've caught you at last .

We are the sons of The Boss .

I will guide you to a world of anguish beyond yourimagination .

How many times must I tell you .

Let's find out just how lucky youare .

One of these three guns has a single bullet in it .

I'm going topull the trigger six times in a row .

Looks like your luck hasn't run out yet .

There's no such thing as luck on the battlefield .

You'd betterstay in line from now on .

The Cobras will take care of him .

Has the CIA dog been disposed of yet .

We have no time to lose .

You musteliminate him before the final test .

They'll be able to handle it .

The old man is always sleeping .

Is he all right .

The End is saving what life he has left in him for battle .

But he'll wake up when the time is right .

Sokolov isn't worth your love .

You can entertain me until the rainstops .

Put that thing away .

You'll spoil my drink .

And who are you .

You mean you've never heard of me .

And you call yourself an agent .

I am Aleksandr Leonovitch Granin .

It is an honor of the greatest magnitudegiven along with the title of 'hero of socialism' to only the finestworkers .

It was awarded to me in recognition of my brilliantcontributions to society .

It wasthanks to me that we were able to stamp out the Nazi scum .

It was I whocreated the basic design for the mobile ballistic system you know andfear as SS-1C .

I am merely drowning my sorrow .

My research has come to nothing .

And this magnificent metal gear will make a revolutionarystep forward in weapons development .

But I won't be used so easily .

These bastards will live to regret this .

A tank does not need a rocket . It needs something else .

And where is Sokolov .

My project has been terminated .

The Philosopher's Legacy has beenhanded over to him .

What the hell are you talking about .

The Philosopher's Legacy .

Haven't you heard of the Philosophers .

Thecolonel has inherited their immense legacy .

Volgin's father was incharge of the Philosopher's money laundering activities .

AndVolgin inherited that treasure illegally .

We never need to worry aboutthe military budget .

The development costs at our facility are all paidout of the colonel's deep pockets .

The weapons born here will be thegenes for creating an entirely new form of warfare . The funding for myresearch came out of that legacy .

AME out of it .

That's where they moved Sokolov .

I'm sure it is .

I'll take my chances .

To thank you for your compliment .

Tatyana gave them to me .

I wanted to thank you forcomplimenting me on them .

I'll tell you how to get into the fortress .

There is an underground tunnel that runs aroundthe perimeter of the fortress .

You should be able to use it to sneakinto the base .

Head for the mountains .

The entrance to the tunnel islocated there .

There should have been a locked door inside of it .

Beyond that door lies a vastjungle .

You can climb up into the mountains from the far end of thejungle .

Go back to the warehouse .

Use the key to open the locked doorand head for the mountains .

Why are you helping me .

I love this land .

I cannot even imagineliving anywhere else .

I wish to remain a hero .

I cannot bear the thought of being hounded into a cornerand left to waste away .

It is already dawn .

I willremain here and nurse my troubles for a little longer .

I am The Fear .

That bolt is coated with the venom of the BrazilianWandering Spider .

Soon a most exquisite pain will engulf your entirebody .

Not a fitting death at all .

The Boss' apprentice .

I will giveyou fear such as you've never experienced before .

Come into my web .

Is he all right .

Right now he's busy putting the finishing touches on theShagohod .

That means they haven't killed him .

But you better hurry .

They've already finished thePhase 2 tests .

The colonel won't have any qualms about killing him ifhe thinks the CIA is closing in .

Granin told me that I should be able to get there from the mountainsto the north through an underground tunnel .

He even gave me the key to the warehouse .

You've got to be kidding me .

Hell if I know .

The mountain entrance to the underground tunnel that leads to thefortress is sealed .

You need a key to get in .

That key won't work .

But don't worry .

I'll figure something out .

There are some ruins at the top of the mountains .

The top of the mountains .

There's something else I've got to tell you .

I heard that one of the Cobras is waiting for you in the jungle at thefoot of the mountains .

He's a legendary sniper call The End .

Don't underestimate him .

He's known as the father of modern sniping .

He's all by himself .

Apparently he doesn't need a spotter .

You can't be serious .

The entire forest is on his side .

I heard that the Ocelots have set up an ambush for you in the jungle atthe foot of the mountains .

Let melinger in this world just a little longer .

I have already slept enoughfor one lifetime .

You have my thanks .

Ihave to thank you .

That's The End .

I've got experience sniping in urban and marine environments .

What about the forest .

He should be lying in wait for you in one ofthose places .

Sounds like this may take awhile .

It'll be a test of endurance .

I wouldn't be so sure if I were you .

But he doesn't know you .

I'm sure you can beat him .

Spirits of the forest .

The time has come .

What a splendidd way .

I have no regrets .

Ican return to the forest at last .

You look like you could use some rest .

I'll be fine .

It's just that playing these two roles hasn't left me muchtime to sleep .

Where'd you get those cuts .

He found out .

Does it lookthat strange to you .

I'm the same way .

Where'd you get this one .

I got it after defecting to the Soviet Union .

I don't think so .

It's older than that .

Code breaking is a desk job .

You really want to know .

But enough about that .

The Phase 2 trial of the Shagohod is about tostart .

And it looks like someone might be coming to spoil the party .

His forces are on their way here .

The colonel is gathering his troopstogether to meet them .

You'll need this key .

It unlocks the doorto the underground tunnel .

The food of the future .

A well-balanced meal for the space age .

It'sgood to eat some real food once in a while .

Do you know where exactly in Groznyj Grad Sokolov is located .

The weapons lab isdivided into three wings .

There's the east wing which houses the researchfacilities .

Then there's the main wing where the weapons are assembled .

That's where Sokolov is .

The west wing of the weapons lab .

There's just one problem .

The west wing is protected by the highest level of security .

You need tobe colonel class to get in .

Major Ivan Raidenovitch Raikov .

How do I do that .

Steal his clothes . You look similar from behind so they won't know thedifference .

Your face might be a problem so you'll just have to figuresomething out .

He should be somewhere in the east wing .

But how am I supposed to escape once I get Sokolov out ofthere .

Command said you're supposed to have something ready for me .

There's a lake 30 miles north of here .

I hid a WIG there .

It's a state-of-art ground effect vehicle .

A ground effect vehicle .

I happen to be an excellent pilot .

Taking off from a lake is trickier than it looks .

It's not like ridinga motorcycle .

You've got to be delicate .

Of course I will .

I'll head for Groznyj Grad .

There's something I wanted to ask you .

What's the story between you and The Boss .

She was like a mother .

Half of me belongs to The Boss .

Do you love her .

Do you hate her .

Between a man and a woman .

You couldn't possiblyunderstand .

And you think you can kill her now .

I've never been interested in other people's lives .

You were interested in The Boss .

How do you feel about me .

I should be asking you the same question .

Take care of yourself .

I've got to hurry back and play my .

Are you going to be OK .

There's noway you could have gotten this far all by yourself .

Planted to keep someone informed of his location .

Perhaps he was being used by someone else .

I don't need your approval .

I'm in command here .

We must root out spies wherever theyhide .

It is kill or be killed .

Potential threats must be weeded out .

Someone isguiding the enemy's hand .

A single man can only accomplish so much .

But casting suspicion on our own comrades .

The C3 explosives have been stolen .

You think it was the American .

I'd be careful about suspecting your own men .

Where have you been .

The Fear and The End have fallen .

Damn it . CIA dog . That leaves only The Fury .

I'll take care of him .

What is he after .

It must be more than just Sokolov .

America is out to destroy the Shagohod and get its hands on yourinheritance .

And they're out to kill me as well .

He's coming here .

Make sure you polish them up properly .

I am The Fury . The flames of my rage will incinerate you . I cameback from space .

And do you know what I saw there .

A great and terriblefury at being alive .

I'm off .

I'm coming home . I seethe earth .

You can count on me .

What about the Philosopher's Legacy .

I don't know anything about that .

What's the matter .

You're the man from the CIA .

What are you doinghere .

I'm going to get you out of here .

But I'm afraidyou're too late .

Don't tell me .

The final preparations for Phase 2 are complete .

The Shagohod wasoriginally designed as a tank that could launch nuclear missiles fromany type of terrain .

There was just one problem we couldn't figure outhow to solve .

ICBMs we have today are simply too big for theShagohod to carry .

But the military would not hear of it .

Theydemanded a weapon that could launch a nuclear missile directly intothe American homeland .

That is when I came up with the idea for Phase2 .

But there's no way you could load an ICBM onto the Shagohod .

So how'dyou do it .

By accelerating the Shagohod itself .

The unit incorporates the same technology used in the Vostokrocket that sent Major Gagarin into space .

That monster can go more than 300 miles per hour .

So the Shagohod acts like the first stage of a rocket .

The range of the missile launched by the Shagohodthus increases from 2500 miles to 6000 miles .

It cannot be detected by spy planes orsatellites .

A weapon from hell .

A completed prototype now sits in the hangar .

But Volgin is planning to mass-produce thembased on that prototype .

And deploy them all over the Soviet Union .

And that's not the end of it .

His funds are nearly limitless .

Hecould start mass production tomorrow if he wanted .

The reason thattensions between the East and West have settled into a Cold War isbecause each side fears the other's power .

The Cold Warwill end and the entire planet will be consumed by the fires of war .

It's not too late .

What do you mean .

We've still got a chance .

All we have to do is destroy the prototypeand the whole facility before they can mass-produce it .

Just tell me what I need to do to destroy this place .

The liquid fuel used in the rocket engine is storedin a tank .

If you can blow it up somehow .

Some C3 ought to beenough to blow the entire hangar to smithereens .

C3 .

It can be molded into any shape .

The bomb of the future .

Where can I get it .

There was some in the armory here but now it's gone .

It was stolen bya female spy who was here a minute ago .

Her name is Tatyana .

She made her way inhere by becoming Volgin's lover .

I thought she was your lover .

She is Volgin's lover .

This is my lover .

My wife and daughter .

They're in America .

Your family is in the custody of the CIA .

How long hasTatyana been here .

Only a few weeks .

She said that Khrushchev sent her .

What did you just give her .

All of the experimental data for the Shagohod .

I'm not going .

Khrushchev has abandoned me .

I cannot return to my country .

I wouldmost certainly be sent to the gulags .

What about the U .

I once thought of that .

My family is waiting for me there .

Buteven if I fled to the United States .

I would once again find myselfcreating weapons of mass murder .

I am still a weapons scientist .

Without a word of praise from others .

And mycreations do not even benefit mankind .

They are merely the tools ofpoliticians .

All I wanted to do was build space rockets .

But it wasnot to be .

The space race between America and Russia became the preythe of politicians .

The space race and the arms race are one and thesame .

Scientists are alwaysbeing used .

Who are you .

Don't play dumb with me .

I know the major better than anyone else .

What is this fairy disguise .

It's gonna rub off on you .

I see why they call you The Boss .

He andI developed it together .

Are you going to kill him .

Who have you been talking to .

Who is Khrushchev's lapdog .

How can you do this to him .

He'd never do a thing like . You monster .

I hope you'll prove moreentertaining then he was .

What is your target .

Is it theShagohod .

Or Sokolov .

Or maybe it's the Legacy .

Answer me . Who ishelping you .

Who let you in here .

You're a tough one .

But even youmust have your limits .

And I am a patient man .

This is where the fun really begins . My body carries an electriccharge of 10 million volts .

It's no use .

He's not going to talk .

He's been trained not to break .

Admit it . You're after the location of the Legacy . The secret fundestablished by the three Great Powers during the two World Wars . That'swhat you're looking for isn't it .

One hundred billion dollars .

Who is responsible for this .

I planted it on him to keep track of his movements .

So the Cobras could ambush him .

If they knew where he was going to be they wouldn't have gottenthemselves slaughtered .

I'm afraid I must ask you to show me some proof .

But he is your apprentice .

What do you want me to do .

You madehim a soldier .

He's all yours .

Why are you protecting him .

What are you talking about .

I know that smell .

I want to test her .

I'll letthis be the judge .

Do as you like .

Watching this has made merealize something .

It's the ultimateform of expression .

I've prepared an escape route for us .

Go out and head west .

Passunderneath the connect passageway and go north .

You'll find an openmanhole there .

Go through the manhole down into the sewers .

I've got your equipment .

We'll meet up later .

But I can't get too close to your cell .

You'll have to figure a way outof there yourself .

I'll be in touch .

Did you manage to escape .

Take some time and pull yourself together .

Use the escape route EVA set up foryou .

Go down into the sewers through the manhole in the northwestsection of Groznyj Grad .

Start out by exiting the holding cells andheading northwest .

You're already in the sewers .

I'm coming to meet you now .

What is it this time .

The colonel found out you escaped .

But once I'm out of the fortress .

You can't get out .

I can't .

You've got to be kidding me .

And that means the escape route I laid out .

And they just sent a unit out looking for you .

They'll be there any minute now .

But isn't the exit sealed off .

You should be able to get out by heading straight north .

I've been waiting for this . Nobody intefere . This is where it ends .

Don't die on me yet .

Are you one of the Cobras .

A host of sorrows .

And you are one of them .

Thisworld is one of sandess .

But make no mistake .

Now you will know the sorow of those whose lives youhave ended .

The spirit fo the warrior .

Don't be sad .

What the hell happened to me .

You were halfway drowned at the bottom of the river .

Almostcrossed over to the other side .

He was an uncanny soldier who foughtalongside The Boss .

What kind of man was he .

He was especially gifted as a medium .

Theysay he could find out what was going on in a battle by talking todead soldiers .

I don't know the details .

I finished checking up on this Sorrow guy a while ago .

That he's dead .

He's been dead for two years now .

He died two years ago .

And The Boss isthe one who did him in .

Exceptthis time they were enemies .

The Boss killed The Sorrow herself and accomplished her mission .

It looks like it's not time for me to die yet .

I sure hope not .

Otherwise the whole plan is shot .

You didn't call .

I took a pretty freaky detour .

What are you talking about .

Let's just say I'm back .

But how did you escape from the sewers .

I jumped into the river .

From all the way up there .

You're out of control .

I got carried away by the current and almost drowned .

Keep going upstream until you get to a waterfall .

We'll meet in there .

The cave behind the waterfall upstream .

Here's your equipment .

Don't like snakes .

Didn't you have to eat them at the KGB .

In my training we always got the good stuff .

A regular Mata Hari .

The least you could do is call me Cynthia .

How does it feel to spy on your own country .

I can't say it feels good .

But it's my job .

I wouldn't mind eating you .

What do you want to eat .

I hear it's all the rage right now .

Just the place for my survival techniques .

I'll be your eyes from now on .

Don't worry about it .

Are you all right .

It's not like I can't see .

There's something in here .

When did it get like that .

Let me do it .

Just relax and let me handle it .

I can't believe how small it is .

You're pretty good at that .

I'm not done yet .

Is that how they do it in the KGB .

Would you rather I do it American style .

Tell me about it .

The Shagohod's booster unit uses liquid fuel .

So I should blow up the tanks .

That's the basic idea .

It should be enough to blow up the entire hangar .

All four of them .

It should be no sweat for you .

So the hangar's completely deserted .

They've still got guards posted there .

The bombs run off a timer .

Once the timer has been set the countdownwill begin .

How long do I have .

Once the Phase 2 trials are finished I wouldn't be surprisedif they kill all the scientists to prevent them from talking .

I'll take care of it .

That's the mission I was given .

American doesn't have any use for it does it .

Follow this caveand go up the ladder at the end .

Do you remember when you went torescue Sokolov .

Remember there was a locked door when you entered themain wing from the 2nd floor of the east wing .

That's the entrance to the Shagohod's hangar .

Use this key to open thatdoor .

The door right when I entered the main wing .

I'll get things ready for our escape .

There's a rail bridge to the north .

Try not to be in theneighborhood when it happens .

And watch out for Ocelot .

He suspects you're not who you say you are .

The Colonel still trusts me .

And I have my ways .

There'snot a man alive who can resist my charms .

You seem like you were born on one of those .

That pain keepsmy mind off the pain of having to be someone else .

It's not easy alwaysfooling myself like this .

It's only when I'm on the bike .

I only get off my bike when I fall in love .

What's your name .

What's wrong with Tanya .

Don't let anyone see you .

It's a button camera .

What did you do that for .

To make sure you don't double cross me .

The Shagohod's in here .

The completed Phase 2 Shagohod represents a grave threat to theWest .

We can't allow that to be mass-produced .

You've got todestroy it .

EVA's got the data on the Shagohod .

Do you think that's safe .

I wouldn't exactly say it's safe .

But Khrushchev is a shrewdleader .

I can't imagine he'd use it for anything other thandeterrence .

He's planningto use the Shagohod to turn the Cold War into a blazing hot one .

That just leaves one more mission for you to carry out .

I'll let Sigint fill you in on how to destroy it .

I'll make sure not to plant it anywhere else .

Liquid fuel has a nasty habit of going offat the slightest shock .

So don't go using any heavy firepower near thetanks unless you're aiming to get yourself barbecued .

I'll keep that in mind .

The C3 charges all have to go off at once if you want to bring downthe hangar in one fell swoop .

I'll make sure I Finish planting all 4 charges before I startthe timer .

I think that'sabout all I've got .

The rest is up to you .

I've finished planting the bomb on the rail bridge .

That should at least buy ussome time .

I've also set up the escape route .

How are things going on yourend .

I've just finished planting the second charge .

Give me a little moretime .

I'll be waiting for you at the bridge .

I'm on my way out now .

Hurry Snake . Is EVA taking care of the escape route .

She can handle it .

Why'd you come back .

This woman was found snooping around my underground vault .

The Philosopher's Legacy .

Thismicrofilm contains all of the information regarding the Legacy .

Youmight say that this film itself is the Philosopher's Legacy .

It was the smell that gave her away .

She reeked of it .

To think that lovely Tatyana was a spy .

It almost pains me tohave to kill her .

She was my preciouslittle pet .

Isn't that right .

Do you have something to say to me .

You dirty whore . I've had enough kisses from you . I should have known .

What is the Philosopher's Legacy .

I'll explain it before I kill you .

The pact was a blueprint for defeating the Axis Powersand creating a new world order .

And they amassed an enormous sum of money to fund theseprojects .

Enough to fight the war five times over .

That wealth is thePhilosopher's Legacy .

This explainswhy the United States and the Soviet Union were able to steal away thebest scientific minds in Germany as soon as the war ended .

But ourgreat Motherland has far surpassed its pathetic rivals .

My father was one of the men incharge of managing the Philosopher's Legacy .

This microfilmcontains a record of all those transactions .

My positionin GRU made it too troublesome to attack Sokolov's facility directly .

Iused it to contact The Boss and suggested she defect .

The Boss wasconniving enough to see things my way .

We will use theLegacy to heal that rift and make the world whole again .

An unstoppable trump card with enough power to bringorder to the world .

That trump card was to be the Shagohod .

Take good care of it .

He wouldn't have come waltzing back in here unless he had a reason .

He must be planning some sort of sabotage .

I'llgo see if there are any surprises waiting for us .

I'll dispose of heras well .

Leave everything to me .

Let me face him .

I've been waiting for this moment .

No more judo and no more field strips .

Enough of this . He's mine . You will stand right there and watch . Gotit .

Sorry for the delay .

Let's get started shall we .

This is a once-in-a-lifetime battle .

Let's make it a good one . It's just you and menow .

I'm afraid I can't do that .

I made a promise to The Boss .

Are you questioning my authority .

All non-EOD personnelmust evacuate immediately .

Explosives have been detected .

All non-EOD personnel mustevacuate immediately .

The Boss let me go .

I'll tell you later .

We can't leave yet . I've still got one last job to do .

The Boss is already at the lake .

She's at the lake .

She's waiting for you there .

I was hoping I wouldn't have to tell you .

I don't want you to fighther .

I've come to realize that there's a special relationshipbetween you two .

Something I can't understand .

I guess I justcan't understand it .

She asked me to tell you something .

I've never seensomeone with such clear eyes .

The RPG can't put a dent in that armor .

I thought you rigged it with C3 .

We'll lure him onto the bridge .

The bridge is on the other side of the runway .

We'll have to cut throughthe middle of the base .

We'll try to lure him over towards theother side .

Thebomb is planted on the strut of the bridge .

Leave the fighting tome .

I was getting tired of running anyway .

Did we beat him .

I'm going to lure it back here .

You're going to use yourself as bait .

Are you insane .

Who's afraid fo a little thunder .

Fried by a bolt of lightning .

It's finally over .

No time for this now .

The escape craft is just ahead .

Let's get going .

Don't start celebrating yet .

We're leaking fuel .

Damn it . The tank's shot up .

I'm over here .

Not a sensitive bone in your body .

That's good to hear .

The Boss is waiting for you .

You have to go .

Give me a gun .

We're still far away from the lake .

I'll never make it .

I can't believe this .

I never thought I'd see you act this weak .

What do you mean .

We're doing this together .

Say that one more time .

I can't fly the WIG by myself .

I guess I'd better help you out .

You're lucky to have me .

Para-Medic .

You'll both be fine as long as you get the proper emergencytreatment .

But you're the only one who can do this .

Soyou've got to calm down .

I'm running kind of short .

Now get to work .

I know what I have to do .

It's different from the Mauser .

I'll go get the WIG ready to take off .

I'll leave you two alone .

Isn't it beautiful .

It's almost tragic .

Light is but a farewellgift from the darkness to those on their way to die .

To make the world one again .

The world used to be whole .

The foibles of politics and the march of time can turn friendsinto enemies just as easily as the wind changes .

Yesterday's ally becomes today's opposition .

And this Cold War .Think back .

Now consider whether America and Russia will stillbe enemies in the 21st century .

And we soldiers areforced to play along .

I didn't raise you and shape you into the manyou are today just so we could face each other in battle .

A soldier'sskills aren't meant to be used to hurt friends .

So then what is anenemy .

Is there such thing as an absolute timeless enemy .

There is nosuch thing and never has been .

And the reason is that our enemies arehuman beings like us .

They can only be our enemies in relative terms .

The Philosophers must bereunited .

I will devote my skills to that purpose .

Just as I once created theCobras .

They are my family .

I was in theNevada desert participating in atomic testing .

And snowis exactly what I saw in the that Nevada desert .

It froze my bloodwhite .

That's part of the reason I was drawn to you .

You and I arealike .

We're both slowly being eaten away by the karma of others .

But we can still have hope for the future .

In 1960m I saw avision of the ideal future .

This came as a huge shock to theUnited States .

The governmentwanted human data .

So they secretly decided to send a human beinginto space .

I was the one they chose .

That's why they choseme .

I could see the planetas it appeared form space .

That's when it finally hit me .

Spaceexploration is nothing but another game in the power struggle betweenthe US and USSR .

I'm sure you can see that .

In the 21st century everyonewill be able to see that we are all just inhabitants of a littlecelestial body called Earth .

A world without communism andcapitalism .

But realitycontinued to betray me .

It was part of a CIA-sponsored invasion under the guise oftaking Cuban exiles back to their country .

But the US governmentbetrayed them .

Our weak-kneed President held back their air support .

All Icould do was watch in silence .

He was my friend .

But one of us had to die .

I was leftwith no choice .

The Sorrow gave his life for me .

There is no enmitybetween us .

That was the mission .

The secret pact they formed there marked thebeginning of the Philosophers .

But the last of the original membersdied in the 1930's .

The Philosophers of today have no sense of good orevil .

Their influence extends to countries and organizations involvedin every aspect of every war .

They have become war itself .

That's howthey operate .

The sacrifices of war cause a shift in the times .

Thisshift leads to renewed conflict and in turn triggers the next war .

It wasmy father who explained all of this to me .

He was one of them .

And my father isn't the only thing thePhilosophers have taken from me .

We'd been given a top secretmission to locate and destroy enemy V2 rocket installations .

I waspregnant at the time .

The Sorrow was the father .

I gave birth onthe field of battle .

A beautiful baby boy .

But my child wassnatched away from me .

Look at this scar .

This is proof that I was once a mother .

I gave upmy body and my child for my country .

There is nothing left inside menow .

Slitheringthrough my body like a snake .

I've never talked this much aboutmyself before .

There is nothing more for meto give you .

All that's left for you to take is my life .

Thesurvivor will carry on the fight .

It is our destiny .

The one whosurvives will inherit the title of Boss .

And the one who inherits thetitle of Boss will face an existence of endless battle .

I'll give you10 minutes .

It's our only hope .

Or should I say .

You're a wonderful man .

Thre's only room for one Boss .

I told you cou could trust me .

It doesn't feel right to shoot an unarmed man .

What do you say to one last showdown .

What's your name .

My name is Adamska .

It's a blank .

It looks your luck has beeat mine again .

But why didn't you pullthe trigger .

Till we meet again .

It's a blank .

It's a blank .

Oh no . MiGs . There's no way out . What are we going to do .

We've come too far to let them stop us now .

Those things have got tobe armed .

They're going to shoot us down . We were so close .

Stand by for a direct order from theChairman .

Do you read me .

Thisis a direct order from Comrade Khrushchev . Return to base immediately .

Most likely under orders from Khrushchev .

Was this his way of helping us .

Maybe he didn't want things to get messier thanthey already are .

Or maybe he just wanted us to owe him one .

It should be smooth sailing all the way to Alaska .

I'msending someone out to Galena Base to meet you .

The DCI and The President himself are waiting at Langley .

Don'tkeep them waiting .

So what are you going to do now .

Go back to the KGB .

What do you want me to do .

Did you ever think about coming back to America .

I can't go back .

I've left America behind me .

But you saved this country .

I didn't do it alone .

And I still owe you a dinner .

Or is it an order .

Or is it aninvitation .

I don't take orders from anyone now .

Scholars tell us that the first spy in history was the snake in the Bookof Genesis .

In that story it was Eve who was tempted by the snake in thegarden of Eden .

But this time around it was I who tempted the snake andgot away with the forbidden fruit of knowledge .

I hope you slept well .

I wasn't sent by Khrushchev .

I'm not a KGB spy and I neverworked for the NSA .

I am an agent of the People's Republic of China .

Forthe General HQ Second Department of the People's Liberation Army .

It wasall a lie .

So I infiltrated his base as aKGB spy .

The two NSA code breakers who defected in 1960 .

The real ADAM never showed up at the meeting place .

I sneaked in by pretending Iwas EVA .

And you and Sokolov and Volgin .

You all believed me .

We couldn't let the Russians and the Americans take itall for themselves .

And also the nuclear missile launchfrom the Shagohod .

We'llcreate a deterrent force to rival those of the US and Soviet Union .

This was before the war .

So it didn't surprise mewhen you and Volgin couldn't tell the difference .

The Boss was the onlyone I couldn't fool .

She was the only one who knew I was a fake .

Why did she open her heart to me like that .

But now I think I do .

She chose me to tell you .

That's why she saved my life .

But not this time .

My orders from thegovernment were to obtain the Legacy .

But I can't do it .

Not because we loved each other .

And not becauseyou saved my life .

But because I made a promise to The Boss .

And Iintend to keep it .

I just wanted you to know .

She didn't betray the United States .

She was a hero who died for her country .

She carried out hermission knowing full well what was going to happen .

Self-sacrifice .

You are above even The Boss .

I hereby award you the title ofBig Boss .

You are a true patriot .

Aman who combines the qualities of a soldier and an agent .

The Boss' defection was a ruse set up by the US government .

It was all abig drama staged by Washington so they could get their hands on thePhilosopher's Legacy .

And The Boss was the star of the show .

They planned it so that they couldget the Legacy that Colonel Volgin inherited .

Only a legendary hero like The Boss could have earnedVolgin's trust .

Finding out where the Philosopher's Legacy was hidden wasto be her greatest mission .

Everything was going according to plan .

Butthen something happened that no one could have predicted .

Colonel Volginfired an American-made nuclear warhead at Sokolov's research facility .

They couldn't just abort the operation to steal the Legacy .

Sothe operation itself was greatly expanded and revised .

The authorities inWashington knew that in order to prove its innocence they'd have to getrid of The Boss .

And she wouldn't beallowed to kill herself .

Her life would be ended by her most beloveddisciple .

That was the way the government wanted it .

That was themission she was given .

And she had no choice but to carry it out .

Herdeath at your hands was duty she had to fulfill .

A lesser woman would have been crushed bysuch a burden .

The taint of disgrace will follow her to her grave .

Future generationswill revile her .

She will go down in official history as a war criminal .

Andno one will ever understand her .

She wanted to live on .

And that's why she told me .

No one will ever learn thetruth .

She sacrificed her life andher honor for her native land .

She was a real hero .

She was a truepatriot .

Groznyj Grad and the Granin research facility have both beenwiped out without a trace .

But they werenecessary sacrifices .

I believe the White House will be satisfied .

Your time has finally arrived .

The Americanpresident is relying on us to keep a lid on the whole affair .

We've gothim by the balls .

It should make a valuable trump card in futurenegotiations .

I'll keep the KGBinformed .

The feeding ramp is polished to a mirror sheen .

The slide's beenreinforced .

And the interlock with the frame is tightened for addedprecision .

The thumb safety isextended to make it easier on the finger .

A long-type trigger withnon-slip grooves .

The base of the trigger guard'sbeen filed down for a higher grip .

Where'dyou get something like this .

Do you like it .

What are you doing here .

I wasn't .

Even I wouldn't do that .

Don't lie to me .

I could tell by the look on your face .

Humans are interfering with the ecosystem .

It really makes youthink about the changing relationship between .

Don't even thinkin about eating a horse .

You're actually going to eat one .

I have to thank you for waking me .

What's the matter .

I'll get you for this .

Your end will soon be upon you .

So what about the past .

What should I do about the pasts .

How can I change the past .

You want to change the past .

It's that guy .

And make thatchairr mine .

I've discovered that he will be the main character in the next game .

And if Big Boss didn'texist .

You've created a time paradox . You can't go changing the futurelike that .

It won't open .

What a beautiful body you have .

Like a newborn baby .

I still have a plan .

We can only change the future .

But MGS4 is .

What are you doing here .

Sokolov comes with me .

You must be Sokolov .

I'm a CIA agent .

Why are you so nervous .

And there's one more person on your support team .

His name is Mr .

He's an expert on the latest in weapons and equipmenttechnology .

The name's EVA .

What's your status .

I hereby award you the tilte of Big Boss .

It's nto over yet . I'm not finished ye .

You can't defeat me .

That all you've got .

This marked the era known as the Cold War .

What are you doing here .

I see you've got yourself a single action army .

There'll be no accidents this time .

You call that an accident .

It wouldn't have happened if youhadn't been showing off .

What did you say .

But the engraving gives you notactical advantage whatsoever .

Unless you were planning to auction itoff as a collector's item .

And you're forgetting one more very basicthing .

You don't have what it takes to kill me .

An ocelot never lets his prey escape .

The Manhattan incident triggered a serious public backlash .

PMCs have no basis in nations or ideologies .

Smaller countries lacking armies oftheir own .

Every age has its mercenary .

These PMCs are nothing new -we've been dealing with them since before the turn of thecentury .

They're nothing like the mercenaries of the past .

The Pentagon's new battlefield control system has produced adecisive difference .

Between hired guns and the PMCs oftoday .

The system was developed by ArmsTech Security .

You mean AT Corp .

Makes for nice propaganda .

This isnon-smoking flight .

State governments and rebel groups can't matchthe maintenance price of standing forces .

It wasn't long beforeeverybody had them on the payroll .

Nowadaysit's the PMCs who serve as standard battalions .

They alreadymake up sixty percent of all combatant forces in zones ofconflict .

I thought it was the U .

And now she'spaying the price .

That's exactly it .

America has now turned war into a form ofeconomic activity .

Proxy battles in a new Cold War .

Reconnaissance has revealedthat those five PMCs are run by a dummy corporation thatacts as a single mother company .

This mother company embodies the five largest PMCs .

He's taken command of this immense army and is now preparingto unleash an insurrection .

I watched him die .

The one world in which soldiers will always have a place .

He must be stopped .

Before it's too late .

Just stopLiquid's insurrection .

Even if it means .

You want Liquid dead .

This isn't justice .

A wet works op targeting the headof a major multinational corporation .

The pillar that supports the globaleconomy .

What we're facingnow is a whole new ballgame .

Iron Mountain's "Delphi technique" .

It existed only on paper .

The reality isfar more serious .

Sounds pretty self-serving to me .

And it's not something the U .

Our intelligence on Liquid's uprising originally comes viareports from U .

They're trackingLiquid's movements .

The core of that regime's army is provided by one of thePMCs under Liquid's control .

What about the rebels .

The local militias have hired small numbers of operators astrainers and field commanders .

And of course they've gothelp from the local PMCs .

A proxy war between hired guns .

A quagmire of war .

All-too-typical victimsof the new world economy .

They'll be expecting you .

CID (Criminal Investigation Command) .

The real rats of theArmy .

Transporation to the area will beprovided under cover of a U .

Will you do this for me .

Will you terminate Liquid .

I'm not like the PMCs .

I don't need your money .

I'll start my own fire .

It's an endless series of proxy battles foughtby mercenaries and machines .

Nanomachines inside their bodies enhanceand regulate their abilities .

Everything ismonitored and kept under control .

The age of deterrence has become the age ofcontrol .

All in the name of averting catastrophe fromweapons of mass destruction .

And he who controls thebattlefield .

When the battlefield is under totalcontrol .

Even the dead have ears .

You've got an old friend waiting for you .

Proteome analysis was positive .

But the mRNA analysis turnedup negative .

Your early agingsymptoms look like classic Werner's syndrome .

But none ofthe tests were able to pinpoint the cause .

Let's try another doctor .

It won't make any difference .

I'm not an ordinary man tobegin with .

Not to mention FOXDIE .

But we don't know where Naomi is .

I figured the only place I'd ever see you dressed like thatwould be at your daughter's wedding .

What are you doingthese days .

I'm working for an organization under the UN SecurityCouncil .

I remember the resolution being passed a few years ago .

I came across some information in my work .

In the Middle East .

I'll explain along the way .

We've got to stop him .

Liquid's made his move .

He's preparing to unleash his insurrection .

Liquid is lyingin wait in a Middle Eastern war zone .

Do you read me .

What's the situation .

I'm just inside the city limits .

This place is crawling withlizards .

AT Corp's unmanned bipedal weapons .

Officially designated"Irving" by the US military .

They've spread like wildfireamong the PMCs .

There are more of those things now inservice than tanks .

They've got tough armor plating and arehighly agile to boot .

Your best bet is to stay out of theirsights .

It musthave something to do with Liquid's arrival on the scene .

You really think he's here .

You'll have to find the Army's operatives and ask themyourself .

I went ahead and used the Mk .

I toscout out the area before your arrival .

You'll find it upahead .

It's a remote mobile terminal .

Sunny and I built it .

I will provide you with a map of the area as well as anybattle situation data .

You should find it before you doanything else .

The rendezvous point is marked on your map .

I'll be waitingfor you there .

Allow me to introduceMetal Gear Mk .

But this Gear's not a weapon .

It's a remote mobile terminaldesigned to provide you with operational support .

I'll be watching you throughthe Mk .

Wish I was good with gadgets .

I bring you somegoodies .

Put it on your left eye .

Looks like an eye patch .

I call it the Solid Eye .

It's an all-purpose goggle thatdisplays radar images and other data in 3D .

You can alsoswitch it over to light-amplifying night vision .

The rebels are out there .

It looks like they've got the government's PMC troopsbeat .

At least in numbers .

And this is their home turf .

I installed a suppressor .

And here's a tranquilizer gun .

It predates the implementation of the System .

I'll follow you wherever you go .

I'llactivate stealth so it doesn't attract any attention .

Head for the rendezvous point .

I'veplaced a mark on the radar in the upper right corner of theSolid Eye .

It's a war zone out there .

Stay on your toes .

Then you can use 'em without having to match IDs .

You can call me Drebin .

There are more of you .

All over the world .

Not that I ever met any of 'empersonally .

You need a guy like me .

Consider it a welcome gift .

The M4 .

The official carbine model used by the US army .

This one's atop-of-the-line model .

Real popular with the big PMCs .

Is the hider CQC compatible .

The beauty of this sucker is that it's got a lot ofcustomizable parts .

Change it up the way you want to meetyour everyday needs .

The frame's pretty rigid .

I can't pull the trigger .

I bet you're using an older generation ofnanomachines .

Sometimes they don't really jibe with the new System .

My day job's working at AT (ArmsTech) Security .

I'm incharge of production control .

So I get my hands on the IDchips before they're even registered .

It's a side of AT the public don't see .

You've got last-gen nanomachines .

I don't know what you're here for .

Can we talk business or what .You won't regret it .

Sunny's been doing alittle sleuthing for us .

A well-known gun laundererin war economy circles .

He's a businessman who deals mainlyin selling black-market firearms to small PMCs and localmilitia .

This guy reallygets around .

You can create a non-ID gun by replacing the ID recognitionchip with a counterfeit version .

This enables you to bypassthe ID recognition process and use the gun .

The problem isthat there's still a record of the chip being replaced onthe System's side .

Drebin's an employee of AT Security .

Hemust have connections on the inside erasing records for him .

You think the Patriots are involved somehow .

I'm not so sure .

Can he be trusted .

He makes his living offthe war economy .

The onlything he trusts is money .

Use him only to get intel andthe supplies we need .

Keep it strictly business .

This is a war zone .

There's product coming in hereby the truckload .

That'll earn you points you cancash in for services .

And I can alsosell you the guns I've got in stock .

Let me show you .

Stick yourself with this .

It's full of suppressornanomachines .

You scared of needles or something .

Be nice to our guest .

You just let me know .

The goingrate depends on the war price at the time .

Looks like you're doing pretty well for yourself .

You might say that .

What with the war economy and all .

System codes are thelaw now .

And control's essentially absolute .

You're willing to bend the law .

I sell IDguns to the PMCs and state armies .

And naked guns to toterrorist groups and paramilitaries .

And these ID guns can'tbe sold on the black market .

System's practically a licensefor us arms dealers to print money .

Privatizing the military's made the PMCs big and bloated .

This wareconomy puts the food on my table .

You've seen a lotof combat .

What makes you think you know me .

Nothing to be ashamed of .

I'm the same way .

I got no interest in the outside world .

We specialize in speedyservice .

Can youimagine what would happen if war just disappeared overnight .

What did you mean by that .

No doubt Drebin's ratesare linked to that war price .

I to deal with Drebinfrom here on out .

He's what you might call a street vendor .

I'm adding a "Drebin" menu item to the Mk .

Anyammo that's inside gets added to your cache .

You can then use the points you've earned to unlock ID gunsor buy new weapons .

Guess I'll have to rely on him for now .

Go away . I'm not done yet .

How the hell'd you ever survive 10 years .

A real Big Boss .

Lower your weapon . Slowly now .

I wouldn't try anything funnyif I were you .

What happened to your face .

They don't know the cause .

You must be the inspector sent by the UN .

This is RAT PT 01 (Rat Patrol Team Zero One) .

We're with theCID (Criminal Investigation Command) .

One of the bodiesinvestigating PMC activity .

What is your problem .

It's been four days since Liquid arrived in the area .

She doesn't look like a combatant .

Probably some kind ofadvisor .

Something wrong with that .

The sleeping giant is Jonathan .

Don't stand behind him .

He hates it when people go aroundhis back .

But everybody just calls him Akiba .

I've finished installing the sensors .

You're all grown up .

Maybe it's because someone taught me well .

A certainlegendary hero who suddenly disappeared .

You quit the unit .

I never gave up on you or on FOXHOUND .

I wanted you to turn aroundand see who I was .

I've put the past behind .

I'm doneplaying little love games .

What are you here for .

Because I heard a rumor there's an assassin outthere targeting their leader .

I'm only here because the UN wantsme to assess the impact and effects of PMCs on their refugeeprotection efforts .

More than enough for a retired vet like me .

I know he's plotting an insurrection .

How can you be so sure .

They've implemented a system that monitors in real-timeevery single soldier engaged in combat action .

Whetherhe's state army or PMC .

Each individual soldier has beenfully ID-tagged with nanomachines injected into their bodiesfor that purpose .

The nanomachines keep track of the soldiers and theirreal-time personal data 24 hours a day .

Data on everyinternal response within the body .

All of it is collected byan AI at the System's core .

It also enables crisis management for eachindividual soldier .

Even policeagencies are starting to adopt it .

But I've gotten used to it .

And that's not all theSystem does for us .

It's also a security guarantee againstthe PMCs .

The PMCs are combat groups without states orideologies .

They don't care why the war is being fought .

Or committing humanitarian atrocities .

They ensured that no onecan use firearms or military vehicles without the properSystem ID .

It's true for every piece of equipment out there .

Their weapons and equipment wouldautomatically be locked out .

And there's more .

Even if theymanaged to circumvent the System by getting the nanomachinesout of each soldier's body .

And the Patriots are behind this .

La li lu le lo .

What are you talking about .

So this System is foolproof .

They call it SOP .

Sons of the Patriots .

The AI that controls it is a tightly guarded secret .

There's no way a third party could get control ofit .

I just met a guy who said he could launder ID guns .

TheSystem does have holes .

There can't be more than a few hundred of those gunlaunderers .

It's just a grass-roots movement .

It's not likethey can affect the entire PMC war machine .

His PMCs might even exceed the USmilitary in terms of numbers .

So long as the US responds immediately whenLiquid makes his move .

We can take them down by force .

When ARSOC (Army Special Operations Command) heard aboutLiquid's plans .

They sent us to sniff around the PMCs .

We act as backupfor the System by monitoring the soldiers .

PMC inspectionsare always carried out on the battlefield .

That's why we'reauthorized to carry and use weapons .

We've lost five inspection teams in the past few monthsalone .

They were all undercover inside Liquid's PMCs .

We'd be exterminated like rats .

But we're smarter than that .

And after three monthsof searching God knows how many battlefields .

We've finally tracked him down .

When we reported that we'd found Liquid .

Our superiorsordered us to provide the UN investigators with intel .

But Ididn't know it'd be you .

Didn't the colonel tell you he was sending me .

Don't tell me it's Campbell .

He put you up to this .

You didn't know .

You've got to be kidding . You expect me to work with myuncle .

This is bullshit . He's not my father .

Little violation of the need-to-know rule .

He's your father .

I'llnever forgive that womanizing piece of shit .

His new wife's about my age .

I hear she's even got a kid .

There's 20 of them .

It's the FROGS .

This is not good .

Were you being followed .

They might have seen the reflection off my scope lens .

You guys think it was my fault .

It wasn't my fault . I swear .

It wasn't my fault . Oh man .

At a camp up ahead .

I'll fill you in later .

Eye contact . These guys are with Liquid's private army .

We'll use the stairs and get outthrough the back door on the first floor .

We'll change routeas necessary .

I'm on point .

We've got a real live legendary hero with us .

The nanomachine network inside each unit member's body letsus share each other's senses .

They can see what I see .

Andit helps control pain .

Is your age of heroesfinally over .

I'm no hero .

You haven't changed at all Snake .

Areyou going to be all right .

This get-up doubles as a muscle suit .

I can still getaround .

Liquid's camp is up ahead .

I'll mark it on your map .

One man's blunder can compromise the whole team .

It's to the north ofwhere you are .

I wonder how much that has to do with the System .

The sensesyou used to develop through extended training and experiencecan now be obtained without even working for them .

It even beats VR training that was allthe rage a few years back .

It'salso made the child soldier phenomeno more problematic thanever .

Can the nanomachines do anything to counteract PostTraumatic Stress Disorder .

They might provide a degree of psychologicalstability .

Augmenting the soldier's existing experience andpsychological fortitude .

But a soldier's got to have more than that .

It can't be .

Show me your rage .

Isn't it funny .

That's the mission .

Are you going to stop me .

My mission is to inspect the PMCs .

I'm not in a position totake action .

All I can do is stand by and watch .

I can'thelp you .

I never thought it would be so easy .

We arefree . Watch .

Watch as I surpass my own origin .

If you won't be a prisoner to fate .

I don't remember the sun being so flat .

How long was I out .

Someone saved my life .

It could have been Meryl and her boys .

They're doing fine .

This isn't normal .

I thought it might be a form of ADS (Active DenialSystem) .

But I didn't detect any aberrations in the EMfield .

Some of those guys' hearts simplystopped .

Naomi was at Liquid's side .

I found traces ofher DNA in that syringe you were holding .

So it was Naomi .

I was looking for this .

You're not watching your nicotine intake .

You really hurt her feelings .

The voiceprintmatches Naomi's .

I'll make this quick .

I'm in South America .

I'vebeen captured and forced to do research .

The Sons of thePatriots system that controls the soldiers .

Findout how they communicate with one another .

The nanomachinescurrently in use by militaries and PMCs are thirdgeneration .

But their design is derived from that of thefirst generation .

And the basic technology is still thesame .

I was the one who created the first generation .

The technology used in FOXDIE was incorporated .

That's why Liquid has me helping him hijackthe system .

Because I know how FOXDIE works .

Liquid's found a loophole he canuse to get in to the System .

Preparations for hisinsurrection are nearly complete .

There's no time to waste .

Naomi sent her location data in a separate file .

What the hell is that .

It's a type of encrypted data .

Sunny decoded it for us .

This is data from the Soliton Radar you usedat Shadow Moses .

I'm guessing Naomi wants us to know themessage truly is from her .

Sending the map data in Soliton Radar format .

And Mei Ling's helping us out from Hawai'i .

The data she sent was 4-D sound data .

All I had to do was change theaudio data into video data .

This Naomi ladyseems pretty cool .

Naomi was detained by theauthorities .

But someone arranged for her escape .

I suspect it was actually Liquid .

He must have taken herprisoner himself and forced her to do research at hisfacility in South America .

Chances are the location Naomigave us is the site of Liquid's main base .

But there's no actual proof .

There's an ongoing skirmish between a new regime in powerput into power by PMCs .

And a rebel army formed byremnants of the old one .

The rebels have hired a small-scalelocal PMC of their own to stir things up .

It's thequintessential example of a war economy market .

The newregime is still in shambles .

You might say it's a perfect placefor Liquid to make his haven .

Or it could be a trap .

I had Sunny trace the origin of Naomi's mail .

But Sunny was able to track the message back throughits proxies based on access date/time stamps and datatransfer volumes .

I wouldn't exactly call it 100%credible though .

I know she left the Middle East in pursuit of Liquid .

I'msure ARSOC is on to us by now .

We can't chase that line toofar .

Which leaves Naomi as our only lead .

I've secured you landing clearance at El DoradoInternational Airport .

You'll be acting as a UN inspector .

Then what'sthe plan .

I'll arrange for them to get you a 4x4 .

Use the 4x4 to get as close aspossible to the PMC's security perimeter .

The rebels are still pitched in battle against thePMCs .

The commotion should help you slip into the facilityunnoticed .

I'll have a look at thedocuments .

Maybe I'll even have a smoke while I stillcan .

The data we got from Arsenal Gear was a load of crap .

Twelvefounders who've all been dead for a hundred years .

We know they exist today .

You might say thePatriots are the embodiment of the war economy .

Everything that Solidus feared five years ago .

It's allcome to pass .

By controlling the digital flow of information .

Now with the media and global opinion under completecontrol .

Not even the UN can stand up to them .

Then Liquid's insurrection is against them .

It would seem as though Liquid has taken up BigBoss's cause .

Aworld where mercenaries are free from domination .

You mean the PMCs and their war business .

He must be dying to break free of their spell .

Destroying the System means wipingout the information society .

The end of moderncivilization .

Rebelguerilla units are advancing on the base of the governmentPMC troops .

That base appears to be Liquid's safe house .

That's where she is .

Assuming the data is correct .

And one more thing .

The government PMC troops have been operating athigh-altitudes .

We have reports that it's starting to upsetthe balance of the nanomachine control system .

Steer clear of altitude sickness .

Don't forget this face .

This is the face of the bastard who killed your comrades .

More guerillas will be coming to storm the safe house .

Hemust be among their numbers .

Sooner or later he will come .

I'll never forget thatface .

Those were PMC soldiers with him .

Is he involved in Liquid'splan .

I'm sending thelocation to your map .

What's she up to these days .

That's a World War II battleship .

The museum contract in Hawai'i expired some time ago .

I hearit's now being used as a virtual training vessel .

Rumor has it she caught the eye of some lecherous oldadmiral who got her promoted .

She always did have a thingfor older men .

Maybe it's too early to retire after all .

There's no reason for you to getinvolved or take sides .

The rebels are targeting the facility beingused by the PMCs as a base .

This is more or less the samespot where Naomi's being held .

I thought that technology was of your own design .

And the data came from .

I guess I should have told you .

It could be a trap .

A lot of soldiers can't handle the stress of battle .

She'll be useful in helping you understand themindset of both the PMC and rebel soldiers .

I'll be acting as your personal counselor on this mission .

I can also provide advice on soldierpsychology from a threat assessment perspective .

Her advice will have a positive effect on your Psyche Gauge .

Even a veteran soldier like you .

Some things haven't changedwith time .

It'llhelp keep you in peak condition and focused on the mission .

Didn't I tell you before .

I seem to remember himbeing engaged to Rose .

We lost all trace of him .

I used to work with the guy .

He saved Sunnyfrom the Patriots .

He disappeared soon after that .

She's young enough to be your daughter .

Now I see why Meryl was so disgusted .

Meryl said something about me .

Was it you who put her up to it .

I used my connections in the Army to get Meryl the job .

You wanted your daughter someplace where you could keep aneye on her .

Some of us can't bear living like pariahs .

There's an ambush ahead .

Government and PMC troops .

Youcould be shot from anywhere .

I'm at your side .

It's getting rough out there .

I don't think so .

You've been following me .

Lot of legends about you out there in theintel community .

Especially in the CIA .

You know those nanomachines Iinjected you with back in the Middle East .

They let me trackyour location .

The B&Bs are here .

Things are about to get hairy .

B&Bs .

You've never heard of 'em .

They're Beauty and the Beast .

That's a female .

Probably freelancers hired by the PMCs .

They're run out of aseparate parent organization .

Guess it's time for good ol'Drebin to let you in on a few things .

Their number one priority is toeliminate some guy on sight .

That's the bad news .

Drop-dead gorgeous .

They also sayeach one of them's been traumatized by war .

Morelike victims of war .

They suffered shell-shock on the battlefield .

It damaged their minds pretty much beyondrepair .

So the only way they could cope with the realityof battle was to become war machines themselves .

Theremnants of their human side are buried deep within .

That's what you see on the outside .

Word going around is .

They thinkit's gonna free them from all the pain .

And all the sorrow .

Which makes these babes prettymuch obsessed .

Four B&Bs have been identified so far .

The one you just sawwas Raging Raven .

She runs on four legs .

I guess she inherited the title .

She keeps the otherB&Bs minds in check with her powers .

I'd hate to be in your shoes .

I thought no one was supposed to be able to hack into theSystem .

Are you with the Patriots .

I ain't no la li lu le .

I'm no Patriot .

The nanomachines I got in me are different from the militarykind .

No speech restrictions for me .

What the hell are these Patriots .

Not anymore they ain't .

They're what holds thisworld together .

Keeps this whole mess in check .

We are the very discipline and law thatAmericans invoke so often .

They are the war economy .

Which makes you and me justcogs in a much grander schematic .

But now theirlaw has taken on a life of its own .

A life of its own .

It ain't run bypeople .

It's run by the System .

No need for high-leveldecision-making authority .

It's all handled by a massive yetsimple information processing system .

It works justlike natural law .

The world's a much simpler place than mostfolks realize .

Every aspect of the Patriots' System is closely monitored bythree peripheral AIs and a core AI that ties them alltogether .

The SOP System is one part of that .

It's allbacked up by a foolproof control system .

So not even yourstruly can sneak inside the Patriots' AIs .

If they could fool the IDS (Intrusion Detection System) .

Iguess they could use it as a haven to lay low .

A haven is someplace wheresocial conventions and the rules of the net don't apply .

Not a badway to evade paying taxes .

Now we've got us a society whereeverybody's DNA and personal info .

Is totally controlledby the nanomachines inside their bodies .

Won't be longbefore people start using havens to escape from ID control .

No chance in hell .

But Liquid's got something in mind .

You sure there's no way .

I'm just a gun launderer .

Only reason I'm interested in youis 'cause you start a lot of fires .

Get your ass back inside . Now .

Jack is no more .

Where are you now .

I'm right beside you .

What have youbeen doing .

The corpse of Big Boss .

I was asked to do this in exchange for Sunny's location .

The leader of a small resistance group .

Her followerscall her Matka Pluku .

We'll finish this later .

I'll follow your trail and catch upwith you .

It's with her now .

It sounds like he'sclose by .

Did he seem OK .

Ithink it would be best to just leave him alone for now .

What happened between you and Jack .

And in the midst of allthat .

The baby we had together .

It hadn't even beenborn yet .

Jack slowly stopped coming home .

I was all alone .

And Roy was so kind tome .

He's the one who encouraged me to become a counselor .

I'm also afraid of him .

I'll keep my mouth shut .

Then we'll have to make a lot of changes .

We'll need another go at it .

That won't be a problem .

I've taken care ofit .

And things on your end .

We're on schedule here aswell .

I knew you'd come .

I haven'tseen you since Shadow Moses .

Is he with you .

I thought he'd be the only one able to open the mail I sent .

How is the good doctor .

He's the same as ever .

Who were you just talking to .

Although I suppose he's really Ocelot .

I thought he was here .

Where are all the guards .

They know I won't escape .

I'm powerless to resist .

I have nochoice but to cooperate .

What happened in the Middle East .

What you saw was the soldiers' emotions run amok .

Another product of the System .

You don't trust me .

I'm not sure yet .

And if I answer your question .

Let's hear it first .

SOP had another function .

To controlpeople's senses .

The nanomachines inside soldiers' bodies adapt to differentconditions .

Orthey can suppress hormones to neutralize the soldier'semotions .

Prevent them from panicking and engaging infriendly fire or needless massacres .

It's all controlled bythe System's core AI .

The skyrocketing demands of the war economy havefueled the demand for more soldiers and more fighting .

And control their actions .

Asoldier's senses can't be taught .

They must be earnedthrough experience .

Does this have something to do with that test of yours .

The goal was to release the soldiers' nanomachines from theSystem .

But we didn't know about the mental control .

And the nanomachines went berserk .

Our test was a success .

But the moment theSystem stopped .

Allthe sensations that had been suppressed were unleashedwithin their hearts .

Each threat of violence against the innocent .

The user's body rejectsthe nanomachines; this reaction must then be suppressed withdrugs .

They twisted his body for their experiments and nullifiedhis broken heart with nanomachines .

SOP has taken it evenfurther and applied it to living human beings .

The sins ofwar these soldiers carried inside them returned to assaultthem in the form of .

The meaningand the system may have changed .

But the battlefieldhasn't .

Eventhe most grizzled veterans live with an inescapable guiltthey've had to overcome bit by bit through the years .

But what about me .

I've never been under the System'scontrol .

That's why I want to examine your body .

The ones you stuck me with at Moses .

The nanomachines are recharged by your body heat .

Most of them were lost through bleeding andexcretion .

Were provided with terminatorgenes to prevent them from making copies .

And so inorder to prevent you from being abused by clients or stolenby the enemy .

They shortened your lifespan and removedyour ability to reproduce .

It was a safety device to ensurethat the seed of Big Boss didn't end up in the hands ofothers .

It's how you wereborn .

It's your natural lifespan .

How long is my body going to hold out .

Every part of your body is aging rapidly .

Anordinary man wouldn't even be standing by now .

How long do I have .

There's something I have to tell you .

You and I both know your body is approaching its limit .

What do you mean .

We can't get rid of the FOXDIE in your body completely .

FOXDIE only kills its victims when theinfected person's genetic code .

Fully matches the geneticsequence programmed into the virus's receptors .

It only attacks targets with specific genes .

That's what killed the AT president .

I'll show you .

The receptors on the FOXDIE insideyour body are breaking down .

The rapid aging process ischanging the environment within your body .

The viruses on the left are FOXDIE in its original form .

Theones on the right I took from your body .

This mutated version of FOXDIE could activate .

Even if theinfected person's genetic pattern doesn't perfectly matchthe receptors .

Which means the virus is becomingindiscriminate about what type of target it kills .

Ever since Shadow Moses .

FOXDIE has been breedingcontinuously in the nanomachine colony inside your body anddispersing into the air .

It'llbecome a killer virus that attacks untold numbers ofvictims .

What is certainis that people will begin to catch FOXDIE through airbornetransmission .

It'll start with those closest to you .

The part of the virusthat distinguishes between individuals will start to breakdown in about .

Three months at the most .

You're becoming a doomsday device yourself .

I can'tpredict exactly how devastating the epidemic will be .

Or whether we all can .

It's not over yet .

You still have a job to do .

You have three months .

And if I choose death first .

Will that stop FOXDIE fromspreading .

When the host dies .

The virus dies with it .

Tell me one more thing .

Have you been to a hospitallately .

Don't they always .

Take a look at this .

These came out of your body as well .

One I've never seen before .

Do you have anyidea who .

The new FOXDIE strain is starting to multiply rapidly .

What's in it .

I can't say for sure .

I'll need to do some more tests .

It contains the same substance the soldiers' nanomachinessecrete inside their bodies .

It's a drug that inhibits thenanomachines' ability to regulate the senses .

Thenanomachines inside the body malfunction when the Systeminterferes with tem .

Give yourself ashot whenever they get bad .

Unless you want to endup an invalid .

It may restore your Psyche for a shortwhile .

But use it too often and the amount restored willstart to decrease .

I've been a fool .

You said yourself we mustn't allow ourselves to be chainedto fate .

I can't slip free .

Then I'll free us both .

I can't tell you yet .

Not until you free me .

Do you even know .

Liquid left here last night .

Where was he headed .

Those are my terms .

I can't leave this place of my own will .

What are you talking about .

Liquid has altered his plan .

Removing the System will onlycause his army to collapse from within .

So he's chosen toseize control instead .

Liquid's objective is to hijack theSOP System .

He'll use it to create the ultimate army ofperfect soldiers and launch his insurrection against thePatriots .

There's a name for his new plan .

He calls it"Guns of the Patriots .

Guns of the Patriots .

This place isn't safe .

Isn't it funny .

It'sall so fucking hysterical . Laugh .

I am an octopus .

An eight-legged beast .

Is the will of thebattlefield .

It's all so funny .

I shouldn't be laughing .

I can't .

I'm not laughing .

Not laughing at all .

I shouldn't be laughing .

I'm really scared .

So sorry I laughed .

I won't laugh any more .

I can't .

I don't want to .

Yo Snake . Looking good today .

What do you want .

And here I was about to tell my very bestcustomer about FaceCamo .

The camo skullcap you just picked up from Tentacle's shell .

Using the two together can get you even betterresults .

I'd hang onto it if I was you .

It's not my size or shape .

Looks like it could use a bit of tailoring before youcan sport it .

Ain't you got abuddy who specializes in that kind of thing .

Somebody's done either homework .

Is that the real reason you injected me with thosenanomachines .

To spy on me .

I ain't gonna share itwith anybody .

Then what'd you mix a virus in with the nanomachines for .

A certain virus was detected in my body .

Are you saying itwasn't in the nanomachines you injected .

Better for me that you're out there kicking ass on thebattlefield .

You're a real pieceof work .

Never thought I'd meet the man who could take down Laughing Octopus single-handedly .

She just kept on laughing .

Something in her past .

It was knownfor octopus .

The round up all the villagers andexecute them one by one .

Except for that girl .

Like she wasenjoying it .

The experiencescarred her deep .

Why are you telling me this .

You expect me to feel sorry forher .

I know you got no room for that stuff in your world .

Fighting you cleansed her mind .

Track and find Naomi'strail .

I'm not like Big Boss .

Tracking isn't my strongest suit .

You never went back to see Rose .

Awareness refers to locating a trail by paying carefulattention to your surroundings .

Tracking means to followthat trail .

Watch howthe animals move .

Listen for unusual bird calls .

These aresigns that someone may be disrupting the environment nearby .

You sound like a ninja .

Ninja are the ultimate scouts .

Don't disturb theair around you .

Try to make as little noise as possible .

Switch the Solid Eye to infrared (NV) .

But the sound it makes while engaged could end up givingyour position away .

So don't leave it on for too long .

Listen to your heart .

Trust your senses as much as you can .

I'll give it a shot .

Switch it off when approaching the enemy .

You need to look at more than just the shape of thefootprints .

Don't assume you're on the right track justbecause the print matches the target's shoes .

Imagine the target actually on top of the print .

Is the depth of the print consistent with Naomi'sweight .

Don't let the hunted fool the hunter .

I'm sure of it .

We don't know what will happen .

Remember the last time .

I'm willing to make a few sacrifices .

We'll begin shortly .

We've got the go-ahead .

We'll use his blood .

I'll be taking a nap .

It's not working .

The emotional controls aren't stableenough yet .

It's gonna be a bumpy ride .

It's my turn to protect you .

I'm a little busy right now .

Don't forget the Mk .

I just don't fear death .

Could you be the one to finally finish me .

Are you sure about this .

It's all part of the plan .

The test was a failure .

Even with his code .

It's not pure enough .

We need all of him .

The PMCs we deployed have suffered brain damage .

Our only remaining option is to securethe original .

It's only a matter of time .

We're working asfast as we can to find their hiding place .

He's not immortal at all .

It was my design that causedhis body to be like that .

What do you mean .

The nanomachines in his body cause his wounds to close andheal at an accelerated rate .

Someone took the basicnanomachine technology I once researched and perfected it .

He's one of my sins .

Does your body have the same nanomachines .

I brought a monster into this world .

He's losing too much blood .

Can you save him .

I don't know .

He needs a blood transfusion .

The trick is to keep the lid on .

This is my Sunny-side-up fortune telling .

So that's why you don't cook them over easy .

But the secret to good cooking is to keep who's going to eatit in mind .

Is this your mother .

She's really beautiful .

That tune you were humming .

Us girls have to look our best .

It's going to burn .

We did a great job .

He's after thecorpse of Big Boss .

It's the final key he needs to gain access to SOP .

The keysto the System are Big Boss's genetic code and biometricdata .

What's Liquid been doing all this time .

He's been performing tests .

What's the need for the original if a substitute works justas well .

Neither your genetic pattern nor Liquid's genetic pattern isa 100% match for Big Boss's .

What do you mean we don't match .

The mixing ofmitochondrial DNA within the egg cell .

Both you andLiquid are as similar to Big Boss as you could possibly be .

So that's what Liquid was talking about .

Which is why they created Solidus .

But Solidus is dead .

This is the most important part .

It uses a special code to inspect all data and commandscirculating within the network .

Any data that fails toconfirm to that code is treated as a foreign object andexpunged .

Like viruses killed by white blood cells .

Theauthentication program this IDS uses is based on a geneticidentification program .

One I helped develop for FOXDIE .

It's set up so that hostcommands only execute properly if the key matches perfectly .

If the IDS suspects someone is trying to breakinto the System .

It registers that genetic code on ablacklist .

So when Liquid accessed the System in the Middle East andSouth America .

It was only a test .

I can't believe this .

Snake and Big Boss don't have the samegenetic code .

Which is why FOXDIE only affected Liquid at Shadow Moses .

Let's put it this way .

If Liquid uses BigBoss's genetic code .

He'll have the Systemcompletely under his control .

I thought having his code wasn't enough .

That's right . And Big Boss is already dead .

Big Boss survives as a biomort .

A brain-dead shellsustained in a lab .

Liquid has already left for Europe in search of Big Boss'sbody .

The test was a failure .

Even with his code .

It's not pure enough .

We need all of him .

Our only remaining option is to secure the original .

Allowing him total control of the System .

Unless we can stop him first .

Where'd you hack this from .

I can't believe this sort of thing still goes on .

The war economy is heating up the R&D race .

Every corporation tetheredto the military-industrial complex is losing its sense ofmorality .

And it's us science-holics who are doing theirdirty work for them .

Not even realizing it .

Can we make Jack better .

I don't know .

It's no use .

There's nothing we can do here .

What do you mean .

His artificial blood needs dialysis .

We don't have theproper equipment .

He's not going to last that long .

Raiden's blood is an older type of artificialblood that was used by the military .

What do you mean .

They have equipment that can heal me there .

The same place Liquid went .

He saved my life .

I've heard of him .

A world-renowned cybernetics expert .

We must head for Europe .

I'll call Campbell and have him get us landing clearance .

Where're you going .

Uh-uh . This is a no-smoking flight .

That's my sister .

I never knew you had a sister .

For a moment Ithought she might have been your girlfriend .

Emma was a brilliant programmer .

Shewrote the worm that destroyed the Arsenal Gear AI .

I'm so sorry .

I usedto be an anime otaku .

So that's where "Otacon" comes from .

I was always fascinated by sci-fi anime .

That's what got meinto this line of work .

It's too bad reality wasn't sosimple .

I never even imagined that science .

Could cause so much misery .

Even when we've got the best of intentions .

We end up being used by others for evil .

Sunny helped me build it .

Sunny helped build this .

We built it using top-secret docs and patents dug up fromintranets at a bunch of research labs .

But she's just a child .

She cracked the protection on your mail .

I assumed it was you .

Sunny was taken by the Patriots right after she was born .

She's spent her entirechildhood inside the net .

That's why she has trouble speaking .

Her home is in the computer .

She can only see the outsidefrom the inside .

She's always in there .

Searching for her family .

She's trying to findout who she is .

And where she's going .

She believes she can find the answers inside a machinehooked up to the world .

It shouldn't be like that .

It's time you let her go outside .

What are you talking about .

She hasn't even been born yet .

She's still in the womb .

Sheneeds to live a real life .

I have a feeling she'll do just fine .

You really think she'll be OK going outside .

That's not what I meant .

I think she's got a good handleon her science .

You were about to say something .

Would you mind if I help Sunny with hercooking .

It makes you look handsome .

Is it OK to sleep in there .

I'll show you in .

I'll be out there working .

The hunt is beingcarried out by US-based PMC Raven Sword .

One of thecompanies under Outer Heaven's control .

Which means that Liquid's lurking somewhere behind thescenes .

They should still be hiding somewhere in thatarea .

Big Boss's corpse is bound to be with them .

I've provided you witha way to evade the checkpoints .

Make contact with theresistance and find Big Mama .

This is our last chance .

Wemust reach Big Boss's body before they do .

Get your ass in the machine .

You're coming with me .

I said over here .

I'll take him from here .

We've been looking for this man .

You're looking younger .

What's your secret .

A little present from Tentacles .

The PMC's sure seem to know you well enough .

Having connections can still open doors .

What is wrong with that guy .

We're ready to strike Liquid at anytime .

You're planning to take him by force .

It's gonna be the Middle East all over again .

I wouldn't rely too much on the System if I were you .

We've got them beat in sheer numbers .

Just leave this to me .

There's no need foryou to put yourself in harm's way .

Don't risk your life forno reason .

What you're trying to do .

It's not amission .

It's not justice .

It's a hired hit .

I know all about the thingsyou did when you were young .

It was what kept me going .

Ican't bear to watch you die over something so pointless .

Don't worry about me .

Old soldiers never die .

Your cause is our cause now .

You don't have to do this .

I'm no hero .

I'm just an old killer .

Hired todo some wet work .

Then we'll just have to catch him .

I may have loved you once .

But now you're just too damnsenile to face the truth .

Wake up and face reality .

And stay out of our way .

It might have been added to the PMCs' blacklist aswell .

And Meryl was acting kind of strange .

Things are going to get hairy once the American suppressiontroops get here .

But first we've got to find Big Mama .

The streets are under curfew .

Theonly people you'll find out there now are PMC soldiers andmembers of the resistance .

The resistance members are scheduled to convene at BigMama's hideout .

So our best course of action is to followtheir lead .

Letthem lead you to Big Mama .

But how exactly am I supposed to find this resistance .

The PMCs have laid a dragnet for resistance members thatcovers the entire town .

They're using SOP to notify eachother by radio of any info collected during their searches .

How do I do that .

I've provided you with a new device for just that purpose .

The Interceptor constantlymonitors PMC voice and data transmissions .

It shoulddisplay the location .

We got in touch with Dr .

Naomi and Sunny areon their way now .

They'll be all right on their own .

They're a few clicks north of where you are now .

There'seven a dialysis machine .

I'm here to see Big Mama .

Is this the guy .

What do you think .

I didn't hear him coming at all .

He's gotta be the one .

No doubt about it .

He is thelegendary soldier .

I need to talk to you .

But I gave you life .

I am your mother .

You can't grow a human being in atest tube .

Not even a clone .

You need a woman's body togive it life .

That's an awfully cold way to put it .

I am your mother .

The man who wants me dead .

He was once Ocelot .

And now he'slocked in a bitter struggle with Zero .

The founder of the Patriots .

When did this happen .

It was in thatchaotic era that the Patriots were born .

And I played mypart .

I was one of the founding members .

Zero created the Patriots to manage and control the Americanstate .

That control endured long after the Cold War ended .

Those AIs are responsible for thecreation of the war economy .

And they gave rise to theSons of the Patriots system .

But I am partly to blame .

Ibear some of the guilt for creating the organization .

It wasright after I first met your father .

Which concerned a new weapon theSoviets were developing at the time .

My mission was tosupport a certain agent .

That agent later became Big Boss .

That was his code name at the time .

A namehe would give to you .

My objective was to secure the location of thePhilosophers' Legacy .

I was to acquire a microfilmshowing the location of secret funds .

Funds amassed by theAllied powers during World War II .

I took the apple fromthe Snake .

And was cast out of Eden .

Itwas around then that Zero used the massive funds containedin the Philosophers' Legacy .

To start a new organization -the Patriots .

Which would carry out the final wishes of acertain legendary hero .

He stayedbehind in the Soviet Union to support the group as aninformant .

Who is now Liquid .

Zero's goal was to achieve a unity of thoughtand awareness .

He believed that was what The Boss wanted .

The Boss was a legendary hero from the Second World Warknown as the Mother of Special Forces .

She had an almostoverwhelming charisma about her .

Wewere all influenced by The Boss's will .

He shared more of her life than anyone else .

Zero disseminated these stories among the masses andgathered the rich and powerful to his banner .

Every eraneeds its symbols to control the people .

Whether it be theStars and Stripes .

Or the Hammer and Sickle .

The project was led by Dr .

Succeeded inproducing a fertilized egg .

The egg used in the successfulin vitro fertilization came from Dr .

Blood from the East flows within your veins .

And was more than happy to carryyou in my womb .

Youwere born the same way as any other normal child .

Fromyour mother's womb .

But Les Enfants Terribles proved to bethe final straw for Zero and Big Boss .

Your father neverwanted you .

Human life isn't meant to be manipulated likethat .

But I wanted you .

His fortune grew throughcountless wars .

And his words influenced decision-makingall the way up to the Oval Office .

As the world saw the riseof digital technology .

Their roots spread andtook hold throughout the globe .

Andbefore we knew it .

Started bringing an entire planet under theircontrol .

Their intentions were fair .

But their execution was flawed .

He wasobsessed with controlling awareness on the inside from theoutside .

I cannot imagine that's what The Boss wouldhave wanted .

They both misinterpreted her will .

And theirabsolute reverence for her drove them apart .

So began thewar between Zero and Big Boss .

Everything you seetoday stems from their cold war .

This war they've caused is nodifferent from any other human error in history .

It allstarted with a tiny fork in the path .

And grew into agreat rift .

There was nothing left of The Boss's noble will in theirstruggle .

Big Boss plottedcoups d'etat against Zero .

Frank Jaeger's entire body was reconstructed throughsurgery .

And he was reborn as the Cyborg Ninja .

Your father was anirreplaceable icon .

He was anirreplaceable friend .

Zero was no longer willing to place hisorganization in the hands of the next generation .

A decision-making systemformed from all the information he had accumulated .

And one core artificial intelligence to unite them- John Doe .

The same GW we destroyed five years ago .

Ever since GW was cut off .

JD and the otherthree AIs have controlled all information on every aspect ofglobal society .

The war economy is no exception .

In the shadow ofthe System and its complete control over the world .

BigBoss isn't allowed to live or die .

He's trapped for eternityin a brain dead prison .

Sounds almost like a religion .

And we usedFrank Jaeger to kill Dr .

The Shadow Moses Incident .

And certainlynot for Zero .

He was fighting for Big Boss .

When Ocelot grafted Liquid's right arm to his own .

Hisbody was taken over by Liquid's thoughts and spirit .

I wasthe last one .

It was when I met him that I finally discovered the locationof Big Boss .

It was in the data he obtained from GW .

Why did Zero keep him alive .

Zero wanted to create a messiah .

That would never die .

Liquid is after Big Boss's body .

I'll take you to meet him .

This is his pyx .

We can't allow Liquid to inherit the same sins thatcorrupted Zero .

Manipulating people's minds for the sakeof his own ego .

She's not in the Nomad anymore .

Less than an hour ago .

She disappeared right after she andSunny got back from Dr .

Why weren't you watching her .

I didn't have my glasses on .

You think she went back to Liquid .

Good news on that front .

We managed to get our hands on adialysis machine and set up an ICU .

We just started him ondialysis and treatment for his wounds .

Sunny's taken over for Naomi .

Buthis treatment's probably going to take 48 hours .

Hey you . Come here .

What the hell is that .

They've found us .

We're moving out .

Damn it .They're sending in Gekko . They'll be on you in less thanfive minutes .

We'll escape through the canal route using the real van .

We've got decoy vans set to draw some ofour pursuers away .

All of these children were orphans .

PMCs that killedtheir parents and use their earnings to support theiryounger siblings .

There are countless child soldiers likethese in the PMCs .

The FPS games these children love aredistributed for free by these companies .

It's so easy for them to get absorbedby these war games .

These kids end up fighting in proxywars that have nothing to do with their own lives .

Theythink it's cool to fight like this .

They think that combatis life .

They don't need a reason to fight .

Zero is the cause of all this .

Defeating Liquid won't changethings .

Hold on to me .

It's been a while since I went outfor a ride .

You sure about this .

I only get off my bike when I fall in love .

Get the body safely to the canal escape point .

I've got bad news .

The decoy vans have all bitten thedust .

Which means the enemy will be focusing on you now .

Ijust need you to hold them off a little longer .

Are you OK .

I think we lost 'em .

A mother's work is never done .

Where's the van .

I'm so sorry .

She'll be coming to search the van .

I'll take care of it .

I'll contact the children .

Come back in one piece .

I'll never forgive you .

Eating away at me .

I'll never forgive myself .

I don't want to beangry .

I don't need anger .

I'm not angry .

Let me out of this cage .

I don't need these wings .

I don't need this rage .

Let your anger flow .

I'll launder his one free of charge .

What's the catch .

Only that you give it to me when you're done with it .

Aweapon with that many decades of rage stored up inside it -now that's a collector's item .

How old was she .

I'd say about 20 .

But she had years of soldiers' rage hiddenaway in that youthful body of hers .

It's unknown whether her captors were with thegovernment or the rebels .

But those soldiers didn't stop .

Theycalled the kids parasites and shit-eating ravens .

Beat 'emeven harder .

Almost like one of those sky burials .

She rippedthe ravens pecking at her to pieces and then went after thesoldiers .

And that's exactlywhat happened that night .

Hers was thedistillation of the rage that decades of war had imparted onthose soldiers .

You managed to cleanse Ravenof her rage .

You're the seed of war .

Maybe it's still too early to tell .

You've still got halfthe BB Corpsahead of you .

I have to apologize .

The three vans that came outwith us were decoys .

I managed to get in touch with the children .

We're going to rendezvous on the riverbank downstream .

But there's a cruiser waiting for us .

The Volta River is ouronly chance of escape .

Let's get out of here .

I don't need to feel the wind anymore .

There's no need tokeep lying to myself .

I only get off my bike .

When I fallin love .

Give me a hand .

The underground aqueduct leads to the river .

There should befewer of them down there .

Where's the pyx .

That no longer matters .

Naomi told me everything .

The thing I've sought for so long .

It's already too late .

But it looks like I win after all .

What do you say .

Care for onelast smoke .

You think you're Big Boss now .

But all that ends today .

It's only a matter of time before Ihave everything .

The AI they think they lost .

Your worm only managed to cut GW into little pieces .

And then we stowed itaway inside JD's network .

This man's body has served mewell .

Allowing me to pass every security barrier betweenme and GW .

Freefrom all forms of control .

I'll cast aside my oldidentity .

And take my own name for the first time .

We're not men .

We'reshadows in the shape of men .

We're freaks who never should have existed .

We're a system .

Insurance that future generations neverprosper .

I won't fight my fate any longer .

It all began with Zero and Big Boss .

Our purpose in life isto fulfill our destinies .

And once all is returned tozero .

The world can be reborn .

The time hascome for you to witness .

Witness our moment of triumph .

Drop your weapons and stand down .

The System is mine . Your guns and your weapons are no longeryour own . Behold .

Guns of the Patriots .

We are victorious . Behold . Guns ofthe Patriots .

Out of my way .

Let them have it .

We don't need it anymore .

We were great partners .

Don't give up on me .

Don't go .

If it's all right .

You and the beasts are no different .

Scorched shadows bornto the world .

When a beast steps into the light .

Unlessthe light is put out .

The shadows cannot be erased .

Solong as there is light .

To returneverything to normal .

The light must be extinguished .

And when that happens .

Let's take this guy to his friends .

Kawanishi-Noseguchi .

We'll launch a stealth nuclear warhead at JD .

I thought you couldn't control a nuke with GW .

We can't .

That's where REXcomes in .

I know where to find nukes they don't control .

All that's left is the final check .

We've identified JD'slocation through GW .

A clever place to hide .

GW's priority willrise to 1 .

And all the systems under JD's control will thenbe ours to command .

The video feed from the Mk .

I cuts off here .

Drebin was saying something about that .

One of those AIs was GW .

ThePatriots thought it had been destroyed .

But Liquid was ableto use it as cover to slip inside the System .

I knew I'd heard that name before .

It was installedon Arsenal Gear .

Emma's worm should have put it permanentlyout of commission .

But Liquid somehow recovered and repairedit .

I'm guessing JD must be unable to recognize GW eventhough it's inside the Patriots' System .

It's a blind spot .

W was written off as lost while it was still tied in .

Usingit let Liquid interfere with the AI from the inside .

He madecontact under the guise of Big Boss's genetic code .

Even theAI threat detection system was fooled .

A haven on the network .

Free from oversight by thePatriots' AIs .

It all makes sense now .

That's why they made Arsenal goberserk five years ago .

GW was on board .

Where is this haven .

Where is their base .

Mei Ling is using the position of the Mk .

I'slast transmission to predict the course of Liquid's ship .

But that's not all Liquid said .

Something about REX beingready .

The US military's systems are all in Liquid's hands now .

Theregional systems have all been shut down .

Guns are fallingsilent across the earth .

It's the first total cease-fire inhuman history .

How's the White House responding .

The President has yet to make an official announcement .

Butthe media is starting to pick up on it .

The information's gonna be controlled anyway .

The war economy has ground to a completehalt .

It's tough to play down a crisis of these proportions .

They must be shitting themselves at the White House rightabout now .

Is about to begin .

Thefirst thing he'll do is try to destroy the System thePatriots built to control the US .

He's already taken the System .

Supreme authority still resides with JD which thePatriots still command .

Which is why Liquid plans to launcha nuclear strike on JD in its orbit .

So how'she gonna launch this strike .

The US converted its nuclear arsenal toreliable replacement warheads two years ago .

The core of the RRWs is now completely ID controlled bythe SOP System .

You'd need supreme authority from JD itselfto control them .

And they can be shut down remotely in caseof an emergency .

All the old nukes were pulled out of service when theydeployed the replacements .

If Liquid can't use the nukes .

Then what's his plan .

That's it . He's going to use REX .

REX was scrapped before the Sons of the Patriots System wasimplemented .

REX's rail gun can launch a stealth nuclear warheadinto space unconstrained by the System .

I think you know .

The place where Liquid madehis debut .

He'll have the world at his fingertips .

And noone will be able to stop him .

Not even the Patriots .

You arethe only ones who can save us now .

Defeat Liquid and put an end to his insurrection .

You can't take any more of this .

I'm not dead yet .

That's not what I mean .

You can't beat Liquid .

He's got thePatriots' own control system on his side .

Things can't get any worse .

We never stood a chance .

It's not about winning or losing .

He's not ready yet .

He needs to rest .

Your dialysis isn't done yet .

He's not ready yet .

I'll be fine .

I'm living my life by my own will .

I won't live a proxy life .

A slave to someone else's will .

I'm a shadow .

One that no light will shine on .

You and I are both just pawns in this proxy war .

I'll release you .

It's the only way I'll ever be free .

That's not what I meant .

I've got nothing to lose .

Don't be an idiot .

You know you've got someone to protect .

It was never going to work out for me .

It even "rained" theday I was born .

You've got it all wrong .

You were the lightning in thatrain .

You can still shine through the darkness .

Do you see this .

I have no future .

You have a family .

I have no family . I have nothing .

I have always been alone .

Don't leave me here alone .

This is my fight .

I got the results back .

He's on Shadow MosesIsland .

We lost Metal Gear Mk .

This is a picture of the island taken by a civilian imagerysatellite .

The sea line is rising due to global warming .

Have you heardthat the enire Fox Archipelago is about to slip into theocean .

The surrounding islands have already been evacuated .

Liquid's arrival there can only mean one thing .

He is going to use REX .

That's how it looks from here .

All the Metal Gears after REXwere embedded with System IDs .

Then what about REX .

What did Washington do with it .

The nuclear disposal facility on Shadow Moses hasn't beentouched since the incident .

That was nine years ago .

By the time theShadow Moses Incident was over .

There wasn't a singleperson left there who knew what took place .

It was as if nothing had ever happened .

The data was eitherfalsified or erased so no traces would be left behind .

Wewere exiled to desk jobs for the same reason .

REX and thenukes should still be where they were nine years agountouched .

I'd say it's more like a forgotten island .

Thought I'd never go back .

She's the only ship in thefleet still able to move .

Since it was decomissionedbefore the System was put in place .

And Hawai'i is not thatfar away .

I switched to contacts .

We rendezvous at Shadow Moses .

He who submits to heaven shall live .

He who defies heavenshall perish .

REX is a beast born frommy research .

I was having that dream again .

I just slipped a little .

Be careful out there .

The heliport is to the west of there .

Head west and findthat heliport .

You can get in that way if you want .

I don't see any enemies around here .

The back door takesus straight where we need to go .

Let's get to the back door .

How do I open it .

Security is shut down altogether .

You can't release the lockwithout activating it .

You'll have to go log in somewhere .

My old office is close by .

I'm not senile yet .

Think you can remember that .

Try the elevator and see if it'sworking .

Everything looks exactly like I remember it .

I still can't believe how muchdamage you caused in such a small space .

The guidancesystem in those things takes up so much space it hardlyleaves any room for explosives .

Didn't make much of a bang .

Switchboard's still intact .

The wiring past the switch circuits couldstill be live .

No need to worry .

As long as you don't turn the current backon .

I want to check security .

Are you all right .

Can you punch it in for me .

It's a five-digit number .

At least your memory hasn't gone bad .

This version is totally obsolete .

It's going to take alittle work .

This is the room where we first met .

I was being attacked by Frank Jaeger .

If you hadn't shown up when you did .

It gives me theshivers just thinking about it .

Naomi hated them for what they did to Frank's body .

But itwas me that crippled him in the first place .

We shouldn't have been so trusting .

That's why it was so easy for me tobelieve her feelings were genuine .

But she was only using usto atone for her sins .

What did she do to us .

She betrayed you . She stole your blood .

Why'd she join us afterward .

She has us come rescue her and then she turns around goesstraight back to Liquid .

Why would she do that .

But it looks like she's still with him .

I just had a look at the security access logs .

It's an image taken a few hours ago by a surveillance cameraup ahead .

The beauty and the beast .

They've been through here .

They'reheaded for REX's old underground hangar .

I finished rebooting security and released the locks .

Thedoor on the first floor ought to open for you now .

Almost makes me nostalgic for the days when youneeded a keycard for every door .

It's been nine years .

All you really have to do isreinterpret the old technology in terms of the new .

I finished unlocking the door on the first floor .

Take the stairs down and go to the north door .

II is totally defenseless whileworking on the door .

You'll have to distract the Gekko sothey don't spot it .

Let me hear you cry .

Show me your tears .

Let them flow . Cry .

Until youreyes run red .

So sad I could die .

I hear the cries .

The cries of babies .

Don't come any closer .

I was so scared .

You cancry if you want to .

Cry if you need to .

I don't need tears anymore .

I've cried myself dry .

As much as you like .

Will be there to listen .

I finished laundering that rail gun you picked upjust now .

It's on the house .

This one's aboutCrying Wolf .

You don't need me to tell you there's wholenations in Africa tearing themselves apart in the name ofethnic cleansing .

And then her brother started to cry .

So she wrapped her hands as tight as shecould around his mouth .

Her brother wasn't cryinganymore .

He wasn't breathing .

They say wolves eattheir own pups when they die .

She was spotted wanderingthrough the thick of battle carrying her dead brother in herarms .

Day and nightshe was tormented by the cries of babies .

The wolf thatfollowed her heard her sorrowful screams and answered .

Hemade his way around the camp .

And one by one .

The adults whosurvived were torn up pretty bad .

She was the one who killed thosebabies .

But she couldn't bring herself to admit it .

She wascleansed by you .

Youought to be proud .

All that's left isMantis .

She's the Beast of Beasts .

Don't lether get her hooks in you .

I won't .

Time to change the disc .

But you need to swap Disc 1 for Disc 2 .

You seethe disc labeled "2" .

Wonder whatthey'll think of next .

It's not opening .

I know I disengagedsecurity back at the lab .

We should have been able to get to REX's storage hangar fromhere .

I've got it .

You should be ableto pass through them to a drainage duct that leads to thehangar .

How do I get there .

There should be a special service elevator in the northwestcorner of this floor .

I've got something to tell you about Naomi Hunter .

She might be a spy .

Is that all you cared about .

You killed my benefactor and sent my brother home a cripple .

But I can't go yet .

I still have a job to do .

The hangar is just a little bitfurther .

REX is on the floor above you .

I'll send 'er up .

He only needs the rail gun .

Damn it . Has it already been shipped .

I'm afraid so .

The rail gun is no longer here .

This place will be your grave .

As my Queen wishes .

TheSuicide Gekko are on their way .

We've been had .

I justneed some time .

I'll leave the rest to you .

You'll amuse me until they arrive .

I'll take care of REX .

What have you done .

But can you kill this mere mortal .

Sorry to have kept you all waiting .

You ready for this .

Sunny gave me the go-ahead .

But I can't die just yet .

This one is mine .

You keep those Gekko at bay .

I'll do my best .

Then let us duelwith blades .

Those are Suicide Gekko .

You've got to keep them back . I'm sending you data onwhere to aim .

Put a bullet through their brains .

This thing might come in handy after all .

He was never immortal .

His natural healing abilities wereenhanced by the nanomachines inside his body .

But after somany battles .

He's finally reached his limit .

Sunny asked me to tell you something .

I cooked them right .

You finally did it .

I can't save you .

Now you can return to your true self .

You can be at peace .

This doesn't change anything .

We can't .

Can we forgive it .

And sothe only thing we can do .

Liquid's down below us .

He's stolen the Patriots'System .

The only place where they are truly released fromthe shackles of the Patriots .

The place where they can befree .

Liquid plans to launch the nuke from that ship .

Youhave been given life so that you may fulfill your purpose .

We are given life only so that we can atonefor our sins .

Your life was created for that very purpose .

We must not pass them onto the next generation .

We must not leave them for thefuture .

That is your true fate .

One that even you cannotdefy .

What have you done .

We are the same .

We're living corpses .

Ourbodies kept barely alive by nanomachines .

I shouldn't even be alive right now .

Thenanomachines have kept it from progressing .

But there'snothing more they can do .

With the nanomachines gone .

Timewill unfreeze and begin to flow again .

What are you saying .

Give my best to Sunny .

You have such beautiful eyes .

I'm sorry for everything .

Let's get moving .

Why does it always end this way .

Just when I thought I was ready to fall in love .

I haven't lost everything yet .

I'vestill got a job to do .

I'm done crying .

I don't have any more tears to shed .

We have to get out of here .

You'll carry on .

Follow the supply tunnel .

I've got your back .

They self-destructed .

This is the liberty we've won for ourselves . Outer Haven .

You'll stay here to mark this island'swatery grave .

There were allthese tourists around you .

They were asking me which building it was that King Kong wasclimbing in the movie .

I said it was probably the ChryslerBuilding .

And then you showed up and started mouthing off .

I said the Chrysler Building was in Godzilla .

It was so beautiful .

I didn't care anymore who was right .

And that was our first date .

We watched King Kong in your apartment a bunch of times thatnight .

Didn't sleep till morning .

Haven is headed southward through the Pacific at a speed of33 knots .

The Missouri is falling behind at a rate of about twonautical miles every hour .

Can't this thing go any faster .

I'm afraid not .

This is as fast as she'll go .

Haven will have to surface in order to use the rail gun .

If we can figure out JD's orbit .

We should be able to predict where Haven's gonna surface .

JD is in a synchronous elliptical orbit .

So its nextperigee should be in .

Do they really have to get that close to launch .

The nukes fired by REX's rail gun have a damage radius ofapproximately 300 meters .

The target is a moving satellitethat's travelling at 10 kilometers per second .

Liquid won't launch his nuke until JD is at perigee .

TheMissouri can use that time to catch up .

Will we make it .

This ship was stripped ofmost of its equipment .

And she's got no electronic warfarecapabilities of any kind .

They'll need to openthe cover to launch the nuke .

That's our one and only chanceto get inside .

Why can't we attack it from here .

It wouldn't do any good .

As long as Liquid has control ofthe System .

Physically destroying GW would still leavesupreme authority in his hands .

Sons of the Patriots .

That's why we need to destroy GWfrom the inside before attacking Haven itself .

Liquid's very own Death Star .

We know Haven willhave to surface in order to fire the rail gun .

We'll make a quick approach anddeliver a strike team .

Our goal is twofold .

The enemy relies entirely onelectronic means of threat detection .

So they won't beable to see the Missouri until they surface .

We'll launch the strike team from catapults at the exactmoment Haven's armored cover opens .

They'll then penetrateGW's physical server room and infect it with a worm cluster .

But what if they shut down GW before we get in there .

Liquid is already entrenched within the Patriots' network .

They can't afford to have GW shut down .

And let's not forget .

Liquid will throw everything he'sgot at stopping the strike team .

The corridor leading to GW is defended bydirected-energy weapons that emit certain types ofmicrowaves .

A giant microwave oven .

You'd have to have a death wish togo in there .

Sounds like the perfect job for me .

Where are you getting all this information .

You really thinkthere's a way to destroy GW .

Naomi helped with the preparations to stop Haven's launch .

All of our internal data on Haven came from her .

The reasonshe got on the Nomad with us in the first place .

Was toget close to me .

But she ended up turning to Sunny instead .

What do you mean .

She left her plan in Sunny's hands .

This entire operation is based on the data she left us .

She was determined to stop Liquid .

You'll carry on .

Anybody got a smoke .

You're saying Sunny wrote it .

So she handed it over to Sunny .

Sunny went fishing in my library to see if there was anysource code she could use to complete it .

It was Emma's worm cluster .

She took my sister's code and worked it into Naomi'sprogram .

I didn't have time to look over every single lineof code .

But what I did see .

Reminded me of Emma .

It waslike she left traces of herself behind in the structure .

Butthis worm cluster that Sunny created .

It's even betterthan Emma's .

Sunny's worm destroys the AI's intellect by triggeringapoptosis in the cells .

You ever think about quiting .

It's not like I've got my health to worry about .

Are you trying to kill yourself .

Why don't we get somebody elseto go .

There's no need for you to do it .

I still have things left to do .

Why don't you jump off the ship with me .

I don't think so .

I've still got things to do myself .

And I don't even smoke .

No problems to report .

Prepare to go for full speed ahead .

And get the strike teamready for immediate launch .

How long until it surfaces .

About 20 minutes .

This is my first real engagement .

This is also my first time .

Nobody is going to die on my watch .

This ship is going backto Hawai'i in one piece .

Best to let himrest .

They say SOP's aftereffects are so bad that a lot ofsoldiers are deserting .

The only people I have left to rely on are Meryl and .

I hooked him up with a non-ID M82 .

Fancy meetin' you here .

What are you doing here .

Including that catapult you're gonna be riding .

His extra orders stopped coming in .

Theytell me it's not economical to replace all that uselessequipment on the battlefield with my stuff .

So I made anextra special trip out here .

I'm on the side of whoever needs me themost .

I'm settin' up shophere for a spell .

Could be your last .

I'm all out .

Looks like that last smoke will have to wait after all .

You're over there .

Inside it's crawling with IRVING and otherunmanned weapons .

Each culled from thebest the PMCs have to offer .

If Liquid succeeds in destroying JD and gaining control ofthe Patriots' System .

And the mankind's armed subjugation will begin .

Prepare to fire main gun .

This is our last chance to stop Liquidfrom enslaving the planet .

Time to do your duty .

No matter what happens .

I'll be with you tillthe very end .

Are my pride and joy .

Rail gun is exposed .

Let this be our last battle .

Ifwe're responsible for Liquid's sins .

Then the onus is oursto bear .

Enemy moving to intercept .

Failure will spell doom for the human race .

You've got tostop them from using that rail gun .

Target hit . Light damage .

The enemy is returning fire .

It's my ankle .

Hurts a hell of a lot more without SOP .

He fell into the ocean .

Sorry to keep you waiting .

GW is toward the ship's stern .

You made it on board .

Break through theirdefenses and find GW's server room .

The corridor leading to GW is defended by directed-energyweapons that emit certain types of microwaves .

Sounds like the perfect job for me .

Meryl's in danger . Take out the enemy before they get toher .

I know your wavelength .

It brings back memories .

It can't be .

Can you hear the screams .

They cryfor battle . Let me hear you scream . Howl . Roar . From thevery depths of yoursoul .

Don't do anything to hurt her .

Mantis is dropping her puppet .

I hear them in my head .

Make them stop . I don't want to hear them anymore . I'mscared .

I'm so scared .

Let me out of here . I can't breathe .

Get out of my body .

You don't seem to believe your own eyes .

I'llshow you the power of the world's greatest mind reader andpsychokineticist . I'll start by reading your personality .

This is no trick .

Where is it saved .

There's no Memory Card . Damn . Your skills have improved .

Put your controller on the floor .

Put itdown as flat as you can .

Now I will move your controller by the power ofmy will alone .

The spirit of the warrior will always be with you .

That doll you just picked uplets you manipulate anybody who's got nanomachines in 'em .

She was born and raised in acountry wracked by never-ending civil wars .

Her village wasattacked by enemy forces and burned to the ground .

This waswhen she was still a little girl .

She barelymanaged to escape with her life .

Ended up in the basementof this one building .

It was full of corpses that had beendumped there .

Almost all of them had been tortured to death .

She had stumbled across a makeshifttorture chamber .

And it was full of awretched stench .

She couldn't sleep with the screams oftorture victims all around her .

Did you knowfemale mantises eat their mates .

The screams went on day andnight .

She covered her ears but it didn't help .

What the hell are you talking about .

But onlythe male ones .

She didn't realize who was doing it .

It was all a hallucination .

Nothing more than somestory spun by another person she'd created inside .

Herunstable mind was what made her so vulnerable .

Itwasn't her will that controlled the BBs .

But the screams in her head didn'tsubside .

They would always be with her .

The inner earplugs didn't work anymore .

There was no place left toescape .

But it's over now .

You freedMantis from that dark nightmare .

The last of the Beasts .

Go on without me . This time I'll protect you .

Destroy GW while there's still time .

While I'm stillalive .

No way I'm getting through there uncooked .

I'm sorry you got dragged into this .

I've got your back .

We'll meet again .

You can't take any more of this .

It's not about winning or losing .

Why don't we get somebody else to go .

And it's our duty to finish it .

I've got nothing to lose .

You were the lightning in that rain .

You can still shinethrough the darkness .

Sorry you got dragged into this .

We'll meet again .

On the other side .

Time to do your duty .

Failure will spell doom for the human race .

I can't hold out much longer .

Damn it . I can't protect anyone .

I can't .

Trying to make up for being late .

I'll never leave you alone again .

How come Mantis couldn't control you .

I figure she probably used people's nanomachines tomanipulate their behavior .

I don't have any nanomachines in me .

Don't tell me you knew this was going to happen .

I just hate needles .

So that's why you were always out of sync with the team .

And why you weren't affected in Europe .

I got these from Drebin .

All those horrible things I said .

Was that because the nanomachinesweren't there to suppress them .

I wanted to be near you .

I've always loved you .

You've got a hell of a sense of timing .

What do you say .

I'd have to say .

You'd rather stay single .

We don't have to make it official .

Is there something wrong with me .

I'd just rather do things my way .

I'll say it again .

It'd be my pleasure .

And don't even think about cheating on me .

I wouldn't dare .

And I want a real wedding .

With flowers and a cake .

It's been my dream since I was a little girl .

I want to be a bride .

They're not working .

Leave this to me .

I'll go to the server room .

The corridor's full of microwaves .

One of us is enough .

My body is a machine .

I can take it .

Your body may be a machine .

But your heart is human .

She means nothing to me now .

You still have your youth .

You can start over .

Made your life a living hell .

It's my duty to put an end to all of this .

I'll make sure they don't get through .

Hold on until we insert the virus .

Lock it from the inside .

Getthrough there as quickly as possible .

So this is GW .

It's like a graveyard in here .

Can you do it .

Leave it to me .

The worm is still spreading .

And it's not stopping at GW .

Is it removing the otherclones .

I don't believe this . Naomi .

JD is being erased .

I hope you're listening .

The virus you uploaded is using GWas a conduit to annihilate the entire AI network .

I've set this video to play back oncethey're all gone .

Sons of the Patriots was only thebeginning .

The Patriots were planning to use nanomachines toimplement the System over the entire population .

I had anobligation to stop it .

With a little help from Sunny .

She believed her talents could help you all putGW to rest .

What she created was an anti-AI FOXDIE .

But thisvirus's name is FOXALIVE .

The conceptual opposite ofthe nanomachines that I created all those years ago .

Wewished to free the captured foxes .

To let them run free inthe wild .

Leaving a message to bedelievered after you've died .

If you're listening .

Sorry I deceived you .

I wanted to apologizeto you before .

But I never got the chance .

You helped me feel the joy of living .

Our country is an innocent child oncemore .

A new dawn is rising .

Now she can build a new destinyfor herself .

The time has come .

You've earned your rest .

The rose petal is about to fall .

I'll get a medic .

The war is over .

You could have stopped us .

Why would I want to do that .

This is just as I'd hopedthings would end .

Back before father's time .

Before Zerogave birth to the Patriots .

The organization they created was called the Philosophers .

Theycalled it the "Philosophers' Legacy" .

A massive cache offunds that would later provide the foundation for Zero'sPatriots .

Zero sought to use his riches to achieve worlddomination .

Theend result of which is Outer Haven .

Free from the System .

Our minds free from their prisons .

That is thehaven I've yearned for .

But we are not yet free .

The war is over .

It's not over yet .

America will descend intochaos .

It'll be the Wild West all over again .

Fire will spread across the world .

And through battle they will know the fullness oflife .

Our father's will .

I know he's laughing .

We are beasts created by man .

Unless the light is put out .

So long as there is light .

I am Liquid's doppelganger .

And you are his .

You're pretty good .

She analyzed Naomi's black box and separatedthe Patriots' control system from the vital lifelines ofsociety .

She cut off the Patriots'control while preserving modern civilization .

Maybe it washer way of avenging Olga .

It was just one big defragmentation .

The AI is truly a living thing .

The Patriots'reign has crumbled away .

Acivilization that has thrived on war since the dawn oftime .

I wonder if we did the right thing .

What did we lose .

What did we save .

Going to walk me down the aisle .

You're not angry anymore .

You've got a chance to win meover .

We have plenty of time now .

Way to go . You're gonna make her real happy .

We are gathered here today to join thesetwo in holy matrimony .

Let us give thanks for the life theywill soon share .

And pray they have love everlasting .

And I brought gifts .

A little something extra from me .

The bouquet . Where's Snake .

That guy always keeps you waiting .

Do you mind if I sit down .Jack .

Don't shut me out .

I need you to listen to me .

What do you want .

Come to laugh at me .

Look at the boy .

I don't have any kids .

He's your son .

I had a healthy baby boy .

Roy pretended to by myhusband .

Only until you'dcompleted your mission .

To shield us from Patriot eyes .

He didn't even tell Meryl .

I don't believe it .

I wanted to tell you .

Aren't you going to say hello .

I don't blame you .

Uh-uh .

I'm not scared .

I'm done running .

And I'm .

I'll never leave you alone again .

Like a scene from Beautyand the Beast .

Don't say that .

You're no beast .

You're my husband .

I'm going to do my very best .

To be thewife and mother this family deserves .

Our time has ended .

Our war is over .

Butthere's one more thing I must do .

One last punishment Imust endure .

Wipe this meme from the faceof the earth .

Is my final mission .

Nothing beats a stiff drunk .

I didn't know you drank .

I thought it was strictly soda foryou .

Not like I never touch the stuff .

Soda just agreed with thenanos better .

The nanomachines break down alcohol before ithas a chance to get you drunk .

So that explains it .

No need to hold back anymore .

Lotta folkslost their entire sense of being the moment SOP wentoffline .

I heard some people are going throughwithdrawals .

SOP kept more than just alcohol under control .

Thosepoor slobs are virtually naked now .

Iguess getting rid of the Patriots won't solve all ourproblems overnight .

I'm not actuallyan employee of AT Security .

The Patriots raised me to be a gun launderer .

My earliest memories are of the LRA(Lord's Resistance Army) .

You're staring at a former child soldier .

All killed in the war .

I was Drebin 893 .

There's a whole lottapawns like me all over the world .

How you suppose Ilaundered guns like I did .

Iwas under strict orders to back you guys from the start .

I wasn't the only one undertheir orders .

RatPatrol Team 01 .

Played like a violin .

Sothey planned to have you guys take care of it .

I don't think they expected you to crash theirSystem and wipe them out .

So does that mean you're out of a job now .

Are you kiddin' .

I got the DREBINS .

All the Drebins in theworld are in on it .

We are pawns no more .

The White House might've lost its taste for unilateralism .

But there's a lot of failed states outthere that went bankrupt from their PMC habits .

And theyowe a shit load of money .

Now only question is .

Who'sgonna pick up the tab .

I'm sure these new governments willtry and keep it under control with PMC corporate reformlaws .

But it ain't gonna be good enough .

They're all sunkup to their eyeballs in the war economy .

Might not be a NewWorld Order .

But the old order under the war economy'sgone for good .

Acertain President said it best back during the Cold War .

And if you think about it .

Whenyou look at its history .

It ain't that different from thePatriots .

The nanomachines used to keep you sober .

A new friend . He lives near here .

He'smy very first outside friend .

It's OK if you want to liveoutside now .

It's your life .

There are other havens outthere .

The sun looks so pretty .

I like it outside .

When is Snake coming back .

So he went on a trip to help him getbetter .

We're not going with him .

He needs to be alone .

I wonder if I'll ever see him again .

Had a hard life .

He needs some time to rest .

I'm not crying .

No need for you to go just yet .

It'sbeen a long time .

I'm not here to fight .

Or should I callyou brother .

Time for you to put aside the gun .

Itall began with a bunch of old fools .

They've allpassed away .

Their era of folly is over .

How can you still be alive .

That body Liquid burned on the Volta .

He was a perfect clone .

I wasimplanted with nanomachines .

Kept in a state of eternalsleep .

By JD the proxy AI .

They had me sealed awaycompletely .

Thetechnology was similar to what they used to restrain the B&Bmembers you encountered .

For me to wake again .

The Systemhad to be destroyed .

One way or another .

Ocelot and EVAwanted two things .

That meant destroying the AI and killing theman .

Right before you uploaded the virus intoGW .

That's when we finally learnedthe location of this man .

Nothing was more important .

And it was for thatthey put their grand scheme into motion .

EVA stole my bodyfrom them and reconstructed it by replacing the missingparts with pieces from Liquid and Solidus .

Inorder to fool the System .

Used nanomachines andpsychotherapy to transplant Liquid's personality onto hisown .

He used hypnotic suggestion to turn himself intoLiquid's mental doppelganger .

For all our advances innanotechnology .

Information and genetic control .

They'venever managed to control people at will .

Let alone turnone person totally into another .

Act like someone else .

Do love toplay as snakes .

It all started with him .

What do you mean without shape or form .

The proxies were only one small part of the vast cycle thatZero created .

They operated on budgets automaticallyallotted to them by the proxies .

Accounts maintained bythe Patriots .

The network covered everything from weaponsR&D and investment to production and marketing .

Politics and economics became nothing morethan iterations of the same oppressively uniform system .

I don't think anyone realized that it was all a setup .

Amere set of norms .

That's what theyreally represented .

It waslike the birth of a new life form .

The System found a newway to propagate itself .

The norms the Patriots hadcrafted for their unified state quickly became dependent ona single business .

Began to reproduce and take on a life oftheir own .

Zero's original intent was to carry on The Boss'swill and establish a unified world state .

And this age chose to act through economics instead of nation-states .

Powered by the industrial and digital revolutions that came before it .

Itcreated a new world without substance .

Noteven the thing she treasured most .

There was onlythe war economy .

With the American system in a state of collapse .

ThePatriots' society has reverted to a blank slate .

This manwas the source of it all .

And he doesn't even realize it .

Even with so much bad blood between us .

Now that I'm actually face to face with him again .

The hatred is gone .

All I feel is a deep sense oflonging .

Did Zero really hate me .

It's too late to ask him now .

Para-Medic .

They'veall passed on .

Only Zero is left .

The world is born .

Themoment zero becomes one is the moment the world springs tolife .

Two becomes 10 .

So long as zeroremains .

Will eventually grow to 100 again .

Was to erase Zero .

Even the mighty Patriots began with a single man .

That one man's desiresgrew huge .

Absorbed technology began tomanipulate the economy .

We realized too late .

That we hadcreated a beast .

We had helped turn Zero .

And for that reason .

I'm taking it uponmyself to send Zero .

You erased me two times bfore .

Will mark the third .

It's already begun eatingaway at my body .

The FOXDIE in you .

What are you talking about .

They did it again .

They used you to kill me .

In order to bury us .

All theycan do is repeat the same pattern over and over again .

Take me over to her .

There's one morething Naomi wanted me to tell you .

Old FOXDIEin your body .

The only that mutated .

The new FOXDIE insideyou continues to multiply .

At the same time .

It ispreventing the old .

Mutated FOXDIE from reproducing .

Thenew FOXDIE is uprooting the old .

Naomi confirmed it in herfollow-up .

The mutants are receding .

Does that mean the mutant strain won't cause an epidemic .

It will only live as long as you do .

Theprocess will just repeat itself .

And become a new threat .

Am I going to die .

You can't stop it .

You can't run away fromit .

Let me tell you something .

Don't waste thelife you have left fighting .

I've never thought of you .

But I've always respected you as a soldier .

If you'd been in my place back then .

Maybe youwouldn't have made the same mistakes that I did .

Ever sincethe day I killed The Boss .

With my own hands .

It's not aboutchanging the world .

It's about doing our best to leave theworld .

The way it is .

It's about respecting the will ofothers .

And believing in your own .

I understand the meaning behind whatyou did .

I understand the truth behind yourcourage .

It's almost time for me to go .

Thelast ember of this fruitless war dies out .

And at last thoseold evils will be gone .

Once the source of evil returns tozero .

Is yours to live in .

Not as a snake .

We fought to freeourselves from nations .

Was on the inside .

Trapped within those limits .

You have been given freedom .

You are nobody's tool now .

No one's toy .

You are no longer a prisoner of fate .

It's time for you to see the outside world with your own eyes .

A new lease on life .

You only need one snake .

The world wouldbe better off without snakes .

These things will kill ya .

Where will you go .

Our fight is finished .

There's nothingleft for us to do .

There's one thing I still have to do .

I have to see thisage off .

See what the future brings .

Sounds good to me .

I'll go with you .

You don't have to come .

There's nothing inside you canpass on to the next generation .

You'reman-made .

You're a beast .

There won't be any happy "Beauty andthe Beast" ending for me .

What little time I have left willbe spent living .

A shadow of the inside .

That's why you need me .

Someone on the outside to bear witness to your finaldays .

Someone to pass on your story .

Not that I'm the onlywitness .

But I'll remember everything you were .

And stickwith you to the end .

Come quick . They're ready . They look .

It's rising again .

