Campbell : It's been a long time Snake. 
Snake    : I should've known you were behind this, Colonel. 
Campbell : That's no way to greet an old war buddy Snake. 
Snake    : What do you want from me? 
Campbell : I just invited you here so we could have a talk. 
Snake    : Invited!? That's what you call sending armed soldiers after me? 
Campbell : Sorry if they were a little rough with you. But we've got a serious situation here. Only you can get us out of it. 
Snake    : I'm retired from FOX-HOUND. You're not my commander anymore, and I don't have to take orders from you or anyone else. 
Campbell : You will take these orders. I know it. 
Naomi    : Excuse me. 
Snake    : Who's this? 
Campbell : Dr. Naomi Hunter. She's chief of FOX-HOUND's medical staff and an expert in gene therapy. 
Snake    : Are you military? 
Naomi    : No, civilian. I've been sent here from ATGC. Pleasure to meet you 
Naomi    :  Don't worry this injection won't hurt a bit. 
Snake    : What's the shot for? 
Naomi    : What's wrong? You don't like shots? 
Campbell : Snake listen up. It all went down five hours ago. Heavily armed soliders occupied Shadow Moses Island, a remote island off the coast of Alaska. 
Snake    : What soldiers? 
Campbell : Next-Generation Special Forces led by members of unit FOX-HOUND. They've presented Washington with a single demand, and they say that if it isn't met, they'll launch a nuclear weapon. 
Snake    : A nuclear weapon? 
Campbell : I'm afraid so. You see, the island is the site of a secret nuclear weapons disposal facility. 
Snake    : FOX-HOUND hijacking a nuclear weapon? 
Campbell : Now you understand how serious the situation is. You'll have two mission objectives. First, you're to rescue the DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) Chief, Donald Anderson, and the president of ArmsTech, Kenneth Baker. They're both being held as hostages. 
Snake    : Those are some heavy duty hostages. 
Campbell : Secondly, you're to investigate whether or not the terrorists have the ability to launch a nuclear strike, and stop them if they do. Any questions, Snake? 
Snake    : Questions? I haven't even said whether I'd accept this mission. 
Campbell : Well you can make up your mind after you hear more about the situation. 
Snake    : Tell me about the nuclear weapons disposal facility. 
Campbell : The disposal facility includes a hardened underground base. Even with our most advanced intelligence gathering equipment, we can't tell what's happening inside. 
Snake    : So someone needs to penetrate, gather intelligence, and report back... Sounds like a spy movie. What's the insertion method? 
Campbell : Well an air insertion is impossible. 
Snake    : Not with this storm going on. 
Campbell : We'll approach the disposal facility by sub. 
Snake    : Approach? 
Campbell : Yes, within a few miles of it. The facility is equipped with sonar detection capability. They'd be able to hear our engine or propeller noise. 
Snake    : And then? 
Campbell : We'll launch a one-man SDV (swimmer delivery vehicle). 
Snake    : Launch? 
Campbell : Same as a torpedo. Only this has no propulsion device of its own. After the SDV gets as close as it can, dispose of it. From there on you'll have to swim. 
Snake    : You want me to swim in sub-zero Alaskan water? 
Campbell : Don't worry. That suit represents the latest advances in poly- thermal technology. The nuclear weapons disposal facility covers the whole island. I'll contact you by Codec after you reach your target. 
Snake    : Anyone going with me? 
Campbell : As usual, this is a one-man inflitration mission. 
Snake    : Weapons and equipment OSP (on-site procurement)? 
Campbell : Yes. This a top-secret black op. Don't expect any official support. 
Snake    : The Chief of DARPA and the president of an arms manufacturing company... what business did they have at a nuclear weapons disposal facility? 
Campbell : The truth is that secret exercises were being conducted at the time the terrorist group attacked. 
Snake    : Must be extremely important exercises if those two were directly involved. Were they testing some kind of new advanced weapon? 
Campbell : I'm not privy to that information. 
Snake    : Do we know exactly where they're being held? 
Naomi    : The DARPA chief has also been injected with a mini-transmitter. As you get closer you should be able to pick up his location on your radar. 
Snake    : Do they really have the ability to launch a nuclear missile? 
Campbell : They say they do. They even gave us the serial number of the warhead they plan to use. 
Snake    : Was the number confirmed? 
Campbell : I'm afraid so. At the very least, they've got their hands on a real nuclear warhead. 
Snake    : Isn't there some kind of safety device to prevent this kind of terrorism? 
Campbell : Yes. Every missile and warhead in our arsenal is equipped with a PAL, which uses a discreet detonation code. 
Snake    : PAL? 
Campbell : Permissive Action Link. A safety control system built into all nuclear weapons systems. But even so, we can't rest easy. 
Snake    : Why not? 
Campbell : Because the DARPA Chief knows the detonation code. 
Snake    : But even if they have a nuclear warhead, it must've been removed from its missile. All the missiles on these disposal sites are supposed to be dismantled. It's not that easy to get your hands on an ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missle). 
Campbell : That used to be true, but since the end of the Cold War you can get anything if you have enough money and the right connections. 
Snake    : So what exactly are they demanding? 
Campbell : A person's remains. 
Snake    : Remains? 
Campbell : That's right. To be more accurate, cell specimens which contain the individual's genomic information. 
Snake    : Cell specimens? Why would they want that? 
Campbell : The terrorists need them. You see these Next-Generation Special Forces have been strengthened through gene therapy. 
Snake    : Strengthened? 
Campbell : You've heard of the Human Genome Project. They've been mapping the human genome, and they're nearly finished. Following up on this research, the military has been working towards identifiying those genes which are responsible for making effective soldiers. 
Snake    : There are genes that do that? 
Campbell : Yes, and using gene therapy they're able to transplant those genes into regular soldiers. 
Snake    : Gene therapy? 
Naomi    : I'll explain this part. With gene therapy, we can remove those genes which we know may lead to sickness or disease, and that the same time, splice in genes with beneficial effects such as resistance to cancer for example. 
Campbell : In other words, we can overcome all sorts of genetic diseases and at the same time add genetic characteristics as desired. 
Snake    : Okay, and so if you knew what genes were responsible for making the perfect soldier, you could implant them in the same way, right? 
Naomi    : Yes we could. 
 
Naomi    : And in order to do that, it's helpful to study the genomic information of one of the greatest soldiers ever. 
Snake    : One of the greatest soldiers ever? 
Naomi    : The man they call the greatest warrior of the twentieth century. 
Snake    : You don't mean Big Boss?! 
 
Snake    : So his body was recovered after all. 
Campbell : Yes, and his cells have remained frozen in cryo-chamber. His genomic information is a priceless treasure to mankind. 
Snake    : Priceless to the military perhaps. 
Naomi    : His body was burned severely, but it was possible to restore his DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) profile from just a single strand of his hair. 
Snake    : You people are amazing. And then you're going to transplant those genes into soldiers? 
Naomi    : Yes. We'll use a process that I discovered called gene targeting. The strongest soldiers don't become what they are by acquiring their skills through training or experience, we now know that hereditary factors are far more crucial for creating superior soldiers. 
Campbell : Snake, we can't give them his body. It's potentially more dangerous than all the warheads on that island put together. 
 
Snake    : The Sons of Big Boss. 
Snake    : What's the time limit? 
Campbell : 24 hours. They say they'll launch after 24 hours. 
Snake    : Did they say what the target will be? 
Campbell : So far they haven't mentioned a target. 
Snake    : When did the countdown start? 
Campbell : 5 hours ago. 
Snake    : Colonel, who are you speaking for? 
Campbell : Naturally, I'm representing the US government. 
Snake    : So who's in supervisory control of this operation? 
Campbell : The President of the United States. 
Snake    : Which means that the President must be meeting with his top aides in the map room about now, huh? 
Campbell : No at this point they're still video conferencing with each other. 
Snake    : If that's a real nuclear warhead, shouldn't they issue a COG (Continuity of Government)? 
Campbell : Not yet. The Secretary of Defense has operational control and is fully aware of the situation. After you infiltrate, if you determine they possess nuclear launch capabilities a COG will be issued. 
Snake    : Well if they haven't relocated to nuclear shelter under Mount Washingtion, I suppose there isn't that much reason to worry yet. Is the National Security Agency in on this? 
Campbell : Yes. So is the DIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency. 
Snake    : The DIA? I'm starting to get a bad feeling about this. 
Campbell : They'll be sending us some support. 
Snake    : We don't need desk jockies. We need a nuclear weapons specialist. 
Campbell : Of course. A nuclear weapons specialist has already been assigned to us. 
Snake    : We need backup from a specialist. I'm just an amateur when it comes to nuclear weapons. 
Campbell : I know. That's why I've requested the assistance of a military analyst named Nastasha Romanenko. She'll be providing you backup by Codec. 
Snake    : A female analyst? 
Campbell : She's built up an impressive record as an advisor to the Nuclear Emergency Search Team. Contact her if you have any questions. She's also an expert on hi-tech weapons. 
Snake    : Where's she working from? 
Campbell : At her home in Los Angeles. 
Snake    : California. Seems like a million miles away. 
Snake    : How well-armed are these terrorists? I know there was an exercise going on at the time they revolted. 
Campbell : They're heavily armed I'm afraid. 
Snake    : What about they're battle experience. 
Campbell : The six members of FOX-HOUND in charge are all hardened veterans. They're tough enough to eat nails and ask for seconds. 
Snake    : I wouldn't expect anything less from FOX-HOUND. 
Campbell : The others are Next-Generation Special Forces. They're not your average grunts either. 
Snake    : Tell me about these Next-Generation Special Forces. 
Campbell : They started out as an anti-terrorist special-ops unit made up of members from former biochem units, technical escort units, and the Nuclear Emergency Search Team. Their purpose was to respond to threats involving next-generation weapons of mass destruction, including NBC (nuclear/biological/chemica) weapons. 
 
 
Campbell : These guys didn't start out as regular army. 
Snake    : Looks like a pretty international group. Mercenaries? 
Campbell : Yeah. And it gets worse. Most of them were from a merc agency that I think you're familiar with. They were part of Big Boss' private guard. And after Big Boss went down, the military just bought out all their contracts. 
Snake    : Outer Heaven. 
 
Snake    : Video game players, huh? 
Naomi    : Don't forget they've all been strengthened with gene therapy. They carry genes which make them excellent soldiers. Don't get careless just because they don't have much experience. 
Snake    : I thought using genetically modified soldiers was prohibited by international law. 
Naomi    : Yes, but those are just declarations not actual treaties. 
Campbell : The interesting thing is that nearly every member of the unit conspired in this attack. 
Snake    : How could an entire unit be subverted to rebellion? 
Naomi    : They're calling it a revolution. 
Campbell : Since they all went through the same gene therapy, they probably felt closer than brothers. They see the unit as their only family. 
Snake    : The Sons of Big Boss. But if they were regular army, they must've been interviewed periodically by army counsellers. 
Campbell : According to their files, they all got straight A's on their psychological tests. They all seemed like fine, upstanding patriotic soldiers. 
Snake    : But they all took part in the uprising? 
Campbell : No. Several people didn't show up on the day of the exercise. That's why there was a resupply of troops. 
Snake    : Was there any sign recently that something might be wrong? 
Campbell : There was a report a month ago that they were acting strangely. 
Naomi    : Apparently they consulted classified information about the soldier genes and performed their own gene therapy experiments. 
Snake    : They can do that even without you? 
Naomi    : Well our gene therapy process is almost completely automated. And besides that they're all geniuses with IQs over 180. 
Campbell : Even the existence of this genome army is a national secret of the highest order. We'd been hoping to investigate this quietly and deal with it behind closed doors. 
Campbell : Hi-Tech special forces unit FOX-HOUND. Your former unit, and one that I was a commander of. An elite group combining firepower and expertise. They're every bit as good as when I was commanding them. 
Snake    : So they're still around. 
Campbell : There are six members of FOX-HOUND involved in this terrorist activity. Psycho Mantis, with his powerful psychic abilities. Sniper Wolf, the beautiful and deadly sharpshooter. Decoy Octopus, master of disguise. Vulcan Raven, giant and shaman. And Revolver Ocelot, specialist in interrogation and a formidable gunfighter. 
Snake    : Looks like a lovely bunch of folks. Too bad we'll be meeting under these circumstances. 
Campbell : And finally, in charge of them, FOX-HOUND's squad leader Liquid Snake. 
Snake    : Liquid Snake?! 
Campbell : Yes and you're the only person who can stand against him. 
Snake    : Liquid Snake. 
Campbell : Liquid Snake. The man with the same codename as you. 
Snake    : Tell me what you know. 
Campbell : He fought in the Gulf War as a teenager, the youngest person in the SAS (British Special Air Service).  His job was to track down and destroy mobile SCUD missile launching platforms. You were there too I believe. Didn't you infiltrate western Iraq with a platoon of Green Berets? 
Snake    : I was just a kid myself back then. 
Campbell : The details are classified, but it seems that originally he penetrated the the Middle East as a sleeper for the SIS. 
Snake    : He was a spy for the British Secret Intelligence Service? 
Campbell : But he never once showed his face in Century House. He was taken prisoner in Iraq, and after that there was no trace of him for several years. After you retired, he was rescued and became a member of FOX-HOUND. 
Snake    : I thought that by the time I left they were no longer using codenames. 
Campbell : I don't know his real name. That information is so highly classified that even I can't look at it. Here's a photo of him.  Pretty shocking, huh?  His skin tone is a little different but otherwise you two are exact duplicates. 
Snake    : I have a twin? 
Campbell : I don't know the details, but it seems so. That's why we really need you for this mission. 
Naomi    : You're the only one who can beat him. Now that I've met you, I know. You've got something he doesn't. I can see it in your eyes. 
Snake    : Why don't I find that thought more comforting? 
Snake    : Colonel, I don't work for the government anymore. Let me go back to Twin Lakes. 
Campbell : Why Snake? Is your life in Alaska all that great? 
Snake    : There's a dogsled race this week. Next Saturday I have to be in Anchorage. 
Campbell : The Iditarod? The longest sled race in the world? When did you become a dog musher? 
Snake    : Right now my fifty huskies are my only family. I've got to take care of them. 
Campbell : Don't worry about your dogs. 
Snake    : What do you mean? 
Campbell : I'm sorry Snake but this vessel is headed for the Bering Sea. There's no room for debate. 
Snake    : I told you, even if I do owe you I don't anything to this army or this country! 
Campbell : You will accept this assignment! 
Snake    : Why should I be stupid enough to do that? I'm no patriot. 
Campbell : Snake, there's enough dirt in your file from your days as an agent to keep you in the stockade until you're a very old man. 
Snake    : Oh I see. Blackmail. 
Campbell : No Snake. I prefer to look at it as helping you to come to a decision more easily. But anyway, I know you better than that. You'd take this assignment even without the threat. 
Snake    : Why do you say that? 
Campbell : You're a natural born soldier. You're not the grow old gracefully type. Same for all of us who've seen real action. The only place we can feel truly alive is on the battlefield. I'm a solider too. I know those feelings of powerlessness, frustration that you feel everyday. You've tried to play the boy scout out there in Alaska, but you can't race dogs in the snow forever.  Why don't you come back to us and be a soldier again. 
Snake    : You think my life is some kind of joke? 
Campbell : Snake, I just want to give you back your purpose in life. 
Snake    : Colonel, you're retired. Why are you involved in this? 
Campbell : Becaue there aren't many people who know FOX-HOUND as well as I do. 
Snake    : Is that really the only reason? 
Campbell : I've been soldiering for a long time, I don't know anything else. I guess even though I'm getting a little old, I still love to be in the field. 
Snake    : Colonel, you're a lousy liar. Tell me the real reason. 
Campbell : Okay Snake. Sorry. I'll be frank. A person very dear to me is being held hostage. 
Snake    : Who is it? 
Campbell : My neice. Meryl. 
Snake    : What was your niece doing here? 
Campbell : Several soldiers were reported missing the day of the revolt. And my niece was one of those called in as an emergency replacement. 
Snake    : She looks like you. 
Campbell : She's my little brother's girl. He died in the Gulf War. Since then I've been watching after her. 
Snake    : A personal motive, Colonel. That's not very soldierly. 
Campbell : I'm retired. I'm just an old man now. And I'm your friend. 
Snake    : Since when are we friends? 
Campbell : I've thought of us as friends since the fall of Zanzibar. 
Snake    : With my personality I don't have too many friends. 
Campbell : That's what I trust about you. It's what makes you human. Please Snake. Save my niece Meryl. 
Snake    : All right, but I have two conditions. 
Campbell : Name them. 
Snake    : One, no more secrets between us. I want complete disclosure at all times and two, I'll only accept orders from you, Colonel. No cutoffs involved okay? 
Campbell : Agreed. That's why I was called. But one thing. 
Snake    : What? 
Campbell : I'm not a colonel anymore. Just a retired old warhorse. 
Snake    : I understand, Colonel. 
Snake    : That doctor. Is she part of this operation too? 
Campbell : She was in charge of FOX-HOUND's gene therapy. She knows more about those men than anyone else. 
Snake    : You mean you've seen them naked? 
Naomi    : Make no mistake. I'm not a nurse. I'm a scientist. 
Snake    : By the way, what was that injection for? 
Naomi    : It's a combination of and nanomachines and an anti-freezing peptide so that your blood and other bodily fluids don't freeze, even at sub-arctic temperatures. 
Snake    : Nanomachines? 
Naomi    : Not just one kind either. There are different types which will replenish the supply of adrenaline, nutrition and sugar in your bloodstream. 
Snake    : Now I don't have to worry about food. 
Naomi    : I also put some nootropics in there. 
Snake    : Say what? 
Naomi    : Nootropics. It's a class of drugs which wil help improve your mental functioning. 
Snake    : It'll make smarter huh? Anything else? 
Naomi    : Benzedrine. It's a type of stimulant. It'll keep you alert and responsive for twelve straight hours. 
Snake    : That was quite a cocktail. Anything else in there? 
Naomi    : Those nanomachines will also keep your Codec's batteries charged up. 
Snake    : I guess I can call you when I'm ready to go on a diet. 
Naomi    : You're welcome. 
Snake    : I need to borrow your scissors. 
Naomi    : What are you going to do? 
Snake    : Don't worry. Just going to clean myself up a little. 
Naomi    : Huh? 
Snake    : I don't want to be mistaken for the leader of the terrorists. 
******************************************************************************  5.2   Infiltration 
****************************************************************************** 
(Snake swims through the lower dock of the disposal facility.  We see
a man riding up the cargo elevator.) 
Liquid   : Stay alert!  He'll be through here, I know it.  I'm going to go swat down a couple of bothersome flies. 
(Snake removes his flippers and calls Campbell on the codec.) 
Snake    : This is Snake.  Colonel, can you hear me? 
Campbell : Loud and clear Snake.  What's the situation? 
Snake    : Looks like the elevator in the back is the only way up. 
Campbell : Just as I expected.  You'll have to take the elevator to the surface.  But make sure that nobody sees you.  If you need to contact me by codec, the frequency is 140.85.  When you want to use the codec push the Select button. When we need to contact you the codec will beep.  When you hear that noise push the Select button. The codec directly stimulates the small bones of your ear, no one but you will be able to hear it. 
Snake    : Got it, okay, I'm ready to go. 
 
Snake    : It's Snake.  I'm in front of the disposal facility. 
Campbell : Excellent, Snake.  Age hasn't slowed you down one bit. 
Naomi    : How's that Sneaking Suit working out? 
Snake    : I'm nice and dry, but it is a little hard to move. 
Naomi    : Bear with it.  It's designed to prevent hypothermia.  This is Alaska you know. 
Snake    : Take it easy, I'm grateful.  If it wasn't for your suit and your shot I would have turned into a popsicle out there. 
Naomi    : An anti-freezing peptide Snake.  All of the Genome soldiers in this excercise are using it. 
Snake    : I'm relieved to hear that.  Already tested, huh?  By the way, how's the diversionary operation going? 
Campbell : Two F-16s just took off from Galena and are headed your way.  The terrorist's radar should have picked them up by now. 
(Snake peers out from behind the crate and sees a group of terrorists
by a helicopter.) 
Snake    : A Hind D?  Colonel, what's a Russian gunship doing here? 
Campbell : I have no idea...but it looks like our little diversion got their attention.  Now's your best chance to slip in unnoticed. 
(The helicopter takes off, throwing snow in all directions, the guards
on the ground shield their eyes as they follow it up into the sky.) 
Campbell : There are only 18 hours left until their deadline.  You've got to hurry. 
Mei Ling : Wow...you must be crazy to fly a Hind in this kind of weather. 
Snake    : Who's that? 
Campbell : Oh sorry, I haven't introduced you two yet.  This is Mei Ling.  She was assigned to us as our visual and data processing specialist. She designed your codec, as well as your Soliton radar system. Contact her if you have any questions about either of them. 
Mei Ling : Nice to meet you Snake.  It's an honor to speak to a living legend like yourself. 
Snake    : ...... 
Mei Ling : What's wrong? 
Snake    : Nothing...I just didn't expect a world-class designer of military technology to be so...cute. 
Mei Ling : You're just flattering me... 
Snake    : No, I'm serious.  Now I know I won't be bored for the next 18 hours. 
Mei Ling : C'mon, I can't believe I'm being hit on by the famous Solid Snake... But I'm surprised, you're very frank for a trained killer. 
Snake    : Looks like we both have a lot to learn about each other. 
Mei Ling : Yeah, I'm looking forward to meeting the man behind the legend...but first, let me explain about your Soliton radar system. 
Mei Ling : The bright dot in the middle is you Snake.  The red dots are your enemies and the blue cone shape represents their field of vision. 
Naomi    : Be careful Snake. The Genome soldiers have highly developed senses of hearing and vision due to their gene therapy.  Make sure you don’t let them see you. 
Campbell : First I want you to infiltrate the disposal site and look for the DARPA Chief. 
Naomi    : The DARPA Chief was injected with the same GPS transmitting nanomachines as you. 
Mei Ling : He should appear on your radar as a green dot. 
Campbell : Get whatever information you can from him about the terrorists.  If he’s alive that is... 
Mei Ling : Snake, your radar isn't affected by the weather, but if you're discovered by an enemy you won't be able to use it. 
Campbell : Yes, it gets jammed easily I'm afraid. 
Mei Ling : Yes, it's all made from currently existing technology.  You won't be able to use it in an area with strong harmonic resonance.  So be careful. 
Campbell : We'll be monitoring your movements by radar... so contact us by Codec anytime  you want. 
Snake    : Got it.  I'll call if I'm feeling lonely. 
Naomi    : Seriously Snake.  We're here to back you up, so call if you need some information or advice. 
Mei Ling : I'm also in charge of your mission data.  Contact me if you want me to record your current status.  My frequency is 140.96.  It's a dedicated frequency for saving data.  Don't forget it. 
Campbell : Remember, except for your binoculars you're naked.  You need to arm yourself with whatever weapons you can find. 
Snake    : I remember.  First I'm strip searched by Doctor Naomi here, and then all my weapons are taken away.  Imagine yourself put in that position. 
Naomi    : Well, if yck in one you make it back in one peice, maybe I'll let you do a strip search on me. 
Snake    : I'll hold you to that doctor.  By the way, sorry to dissapoint you but I did manage to smuggle out my smokes. 
Naomi    : How did you do that? 
Snake    : In my stomach.  Thanks to the shot you gave me that suppressed my stomach acids. 
Mei Ling : Cigarettes?  How are those going to help you? 
Snake    : You never know. 
Campbell : If you want to get in, there's the front door. 
(Snake pulls out his binoculars and takes a look.) 
Campbell : It's the fastest way, but there's too much risk of being spotted by the enemy. 
 
(As the guard on the right approaches Snake puts back his binoculars
and hides behind the crate again.  Then he goes over to the left and
pulls out his binoculars again.) 
Campbell : What about the air duct near the door? 
(Snake locates the duct but it is guarded, he pans up to the upper
level of the facility.) 
Campbell : There should also be a duct on the second floor. 
(Snake looks across to the walkway on the second floor to find the
vent but his view is blocked by the railing.) 
Snake    : I can't see it from here. 
(Snake lowers his binoculars and once again hides behind the crate.) 
Campbell : I'll let you decide the best COA.  I'm counting on you
Snake. 
(The game resumes and the player takes control.  Eventually, Snake
enters the vent on the second floor of the facility, he gets a codec
call from Master Miller, his old instructor.) 
Master   : Snake, it's been a long time. 
Snake    : Master?  What are you doing here? 
Master   : I quit being a drill instructor, so I moved out here for some peace and quiet.  I'm in retirement just like you.  Once in a while I still help train the Alaskan Scouts. 
Snake    : Passing on the skills to a new generation, huh? 
Master   : Campbell told me about the situation here.  I thought I might be of some use. 
Snake    : There's no one I'd rather have in a foxhole than you. 
Master   : Well, I know lots about survival in a harsh environment.  I've lived in Alaska longer than you, so call me if you have any questions about the flora or fauna out here.  My frequency is 141.80. 
(Snake is moving through the vent shafts and he sees two Genome Soldiers talking through one of the vent covers.) 
Genome 1 :I moved the DARPA Chief to the cell in the 1st floor basement. 
Genome 2 : : What about the vent shaft cleaning? 
Genome 1 : They just opened the vent covers.  They're about to start spraying for rats. 
Snake    : 1st floor basement ventilation shaft... 
Genome 1 : Shut those covers as soon as they're done spraying.  Also, keep your eye on that woman in the cell.  Don't get careless now. 
Snake    : Woman in the cell? 
Genome 2 : Did something happen? 
Genome 1 : There's an intruder. 
Genome 2 : Really? 
Genome 1 : He's already done three people. 
Genome 2 : He's killed three people? 
Genome 1 : Yeah.  They say he's using stealth too. 
Genome 2 : Stealth? 
Snake    : There's an intruder besides me? 
Genome 1 : Anyway, I want you to increase the security detail on the chief. 
(Snake finds the DARPA chief in his cell and drops down through a vent
opening.) 
DARPA chief : Who... who, who's that? 
Snake       : I'm here to save you.  You're the DARPA Chief, Donald Anderson, right? 
DARPA chief : You're here to save me, huh?  What's your outfit? 
Snake       : I'm the pawn they sent here to save your worthless butt. 
DARPA chief : Really?  It's true... You don't look like one of them.  In that case, hurry up and get me out of here. 
Snake       : Slow down.  Don't worry.  First I want some information... about the terrorists. 
DARPA chief : The terrorists? 
Snake       : Do they really have the ability to launch a nuke? 
DARPA chief : What are you talking about? 
Snake       : The terrorists are threatening the White House.  They say if they don't accede to their demands they'll launch a nuclear weapon. 
DARPA chief : Sweet Jesus... 
Snake       : Is it possible?! 
DARPA chief : ... It's possible.  They... could launch a nuke. 
(The woman in the next cell here this bit of information and stops the
sit-ups she was doing.) 
Snake       : How do they plan to launch?  I though this place was just for keeping the dismantled warheads.  THey shouldn't have access to a missile... 
DARPA chief : What I'm about to tell you is classified information. Okay?  We were conducting excercises of a new type of experimental weapon. A weapon that will change the world. 
Snake       : What? 
DARPA chief : A weapon with the ability to launch a nuclear attack from any place on the face of the earth.  A nuclear equipped, walking battle tank. 
Snake       : Metal Gear!?  It can't be! 
DARPA chief : ... You knew!?  Metal Gear is one of the most secret black projects!  How did you know that? 
Snake       : We've had a couple of run-ins in the past.  So that's the reason you were here at this disposal site? 
DARPA chief : Why else would I come to a God-forsaken place like this. 
Snake       : I had heard the Metal Gear project was scrapped. 
DARPA chief : On the contrary, it has grown into a huge joint project between ArmsTech and ourselves.  We were going to use this exercise as raw data and then proceed to mass production.  If it hadn't been for the revolution. 
Snake       : Revolution... ? 
DARPA chief : Rex has fallen into the hands of terrorists. 
Snake       : Rex? 
(A guard takes notice of the converstaion in the cell and slowly creeps
to the door.) 
DARPA chief : Metal Gear Rex, the codename for the new Metal Gear prototype. They're probably already finished aiming the warhead they plan to use with Rex.  These guys are pros.  They're all experienced in handling and equipping weapons. 
(The guard bangs on the door.) 
Guard       :  Hey! Sut up in there willya! 
(The DARPA chief waves him away, and Snake comes out from his hiding
place by the doorway.) 
Snake       : But I thought that all nuclear watheads were equipped with safety measures.  Some kind of detonation code that you have to input. 
DARPA chief : Oh, you mean PAL.  Yes, of course, there is a PAL.  It's set up so that you need to input two different passwords in order to launch the device. 
Snake       : There are two passwords? 
DARPA chief : Yes.  Baker knows one and I know one. 
Snake       : Baker?  The president of ArmsTech? 
DARPA chief : That's right.  Each of us has to input our password or there can be no launch.  But... they found out my password. 
Snake       : You talked? 
DARPA chief : Psycho Mantis can read people's minds.  You can't resist. 
Snake       : Psycho Mantis? 
DARPA chief : One of the members of FOX-HOUND.  He has psychic powers. 
Snake       : ...This is bad... 
DARPA chief : It's just a metter of time before they get Baker's too. 
Snake       : If they find out Baker's password... 
DARPA chief : Yes.  They'll be able to launch a nuke anytime.  But there is a way to stop the launch. 
Snake       : What? 
DARPA chief : The card keys. 
DARPA chief : They were designed by ArmsTech, the system developers as an emergency override.  even without the passwords, you can just insert the card keys and engage the safety lock. 
Snake       : And if I do that? 
DARPA chief : Yes.  You can stop the launch. 
(The woman in the next cell hears this.) 
Woman       : That card key... ? 
Snake       : So where are the keys? 
DARPA chief : Baker should have them.  Listen.  You need three card keys. There are three different slots to put them in.  You need to insert a card into each one of them. 
Snake       : Okay three card keys.  Do you know where they mught be keeping Baker? 
DARPA chief : Somewhere in the 2nd floor basement. 
Snake       : 2nd floor basement? 
DARPA chief : I heard the guard say they moved him to an area that has a lot of electronic jamming. 
Snake       : Any other clues? 
DARPA chief : Yes... they cemented over the entrances but but didn't have enough time to paint over them.  Why don't you look for the areas where the walls are a different cover? 
(The DARPA chief gets up and fishes something out of his pocket.) 
DARPA chief : Here, take this.  It's my ID card.  It'll open any level one security door.  It's called a PAN card.  It works together with your body's own electrical field. 
Snake       : Personal Area Network, huh? 
DARPA chief : It transmits data using the salts in your body as the transmission medium.  As you approach the door's security devices they'll read the data stored in the card. 
Snake       : And the doors will open automatically, gotcha.  OK.  I'm going to get you out of here. 
DARPA chief : Wait a minute. 
Snake       : What is it? 
DARPA chief : You haven't heard of another way to disarm the PAL, have you? From your bosses or anyone. 
Snake       : No. 
DARPA chief : Are you sure you haven't heard anything? 
Snake       : I just said no. 
DARPA chief : So, does the White House plan to give in to the terrorists demands? 
Snake       : That's their problem.  It has nothing to do with my orders. 
DARPA chief : But... what about the Pentagon? 
Snake       : Pentagon? 
(The DARPA chief grabs at his chest and starts to spasm.) 
DARPA chief : Nnnnnnghhhhhh! 
Snake       : What is it!? 
DARPA chief : Ww... Why?  Uuuuuughhhh! 
(The woman in the cell hears the chief cry out and becomes alarmed.
She starts to bang on the wall and the door.) 
Woman       : What's that!?  Hey! What happened!? 
(After struggling a little bit longer the chief finally dies and
slumps to the ground at Snake's feet.  The woman stops banging on
the door.  Snake reaches down to feel the chief's pulse, nothing.) 
Snake       : Hmmmm... dead. 
(Snake calls the Colonel on the codec.) 
Snake       : Naomi!  The chief! What happened? 
Naomi       : I... I don't know.  It looked like a heart attack but... 
Campbell    : A heart attack?  No... 
Snake       : ...Colonel, are you hiding something from me? 
Campbell    : Absolutely not.  Snake, you've got to understand.  This op is security level Red.  You need the highest security clearance to get access to the complete file. 
Snake       : You want me to believe that you are in charge of this op, but you don't have access to the complete file!? 
Campbell    : I told you.  The Secretary of Defense is in operational control. I'm just here as your support. 
Snake       : ........ 
Campbell    : Snake, we don't have time to debate.  get out of there and find President Baker! 
(The door to the woman's cell is opened and a struggle is heard.  After
a moment it stops and somebody opens Snake's door.  He looks out and
sees the guard naked on the floor, unconsious.  Snake is held up by
somebody disguised in an enemy uniform.  It is the woman from the cell.) 
Woman    : Don't move!  So you killed the Chief.  You bastard! 
(Snake turns around to face the woman.) 
Woman    : Liquid!?  No... you're not. 
(Snake makes a sudden movement, he startles the woman.) 
Woman    : Don't move! 
(Her hands are shaking.  Snake notices this.) 
Snake    : Is this the first time you've ever pointed a gun at a person?  Your hands are shaking. 
Woman    : !!! 
(Snake grabs the barrel of her gun and pull it to his chest.) 
Snake    : Can you shoot me, rookie? 
Woman    : Careful, I'm no rookie!! 
Snake    : Liar!  That nervous glance... that scared look in your eyes. They're rookie's eyes if I ever saw them.  You've never shot a person, am I right? 
Woman    : You talk too much. 
Snake    : You haven't even taken the safety off, rookie. 
Woman    : I told you I'm no rookie!!! 
(Enemy soldiers are waiting outside the door listening to this, waiting
to come in.) 
Snake    : You're not one of them are you? 
(One of the soldiers motions to the others to make thair move.  They
nod in agreement.) 
Woman    : Open that door!  You've got a card don't you!? 
Snake    : Why? 
Woman    : So we can get the hell out of here. 
(The door opens and the guards rush in.) 
Snake    : Looks like we'll be a little delayed.  What are you doing!?  Don't think!  Shoot! 
(They battle the guards and defeat them.  The woman from the cell runs
out of the room.) 
Woman    : Thanks for the help. 
(She makes a bee-line for the elevator.  Snake is looking at her butt.) 
Snake    : Wait! Who are you? 
(The scene changes.  We see three men standing in a small gropu around
an unidentified body.) 
First man  : You fool!  You've killed him!! 
Second man : I'm sorry, Sir. 
(A third man speaks, his voice is distorted, as if speaking through a
gas-mask.) 
Third man  : ...His mental shielding was very strong.  I could not dive into his mind. 
First man  : Now we'll never get that detonation code... 
Third man  : Boss, I have a good idea. 
(We are back in the cell area.  The woman runs into an elevator and
turns around quickly.  She fires her gun at Snake, he dodges it easily.) 
Snake      : Uuufff!!  Damn!! 
(The woman pumps her arm as the doors close.  Snake hears a noise, and
then sees somebody appear, floating in the air.  He sounds like the
third man from the last scene.) 
Third man  : Good girl. Just like that... 
(The man dissapears just a abruptly as he came.  Snake is now very
confused.  He calls up Naomi on the Codec.) 
Snake    : Naomi, I just had some kind of hallucination.  Is it from the nanomachines? 
Naomi    : No Snake.  The nanomachines are funtioning properly. 
Snake    : So what was it? 
Naomi    : It must have been psychometric interferance coming from Psycho Mantis.  FOX-HOUND's psychic.  Think of it as a mental feedback loop. 
Snake    : So that was Mantis...? 
(Snake finds President Baker tied to a concrete support beam on level
B2.  He walks over to him.) 
Snake    : Am I too late? 
Baker    : Oooooo.....  Huhuuhuhuh..... 
Snake    : He's alive.  You're the ArmsTech president Kenneth Baker, right? Don't worry, I'm here to save you. 
(Snake reaches out to touch the old man.) 
Baker    : Noooo!  Don't touch it... 
(Snake retracts his hand quickly as he sees C4 attached to wires
surrounding the president.) 
Snake    : C4! 
(A gun is cocked somewhere in the back of the room and a shot is fired.
Snake jumps up into the air and the bullet ricochets off the floor.) 
Ocelot   : Right.  Touch that wire and the C4 will blow up along with the old man!  So you're the one the Boss keeps talking about. 
Snake    : And you? 
Ocelot   : Special Operations FOX-HOUND. 
(The man twirls a revolver in his hand.) 
Ocelot   : Revolver Ocelot.  I've been waitng for you, Solid Snake.  Now we'll see if the man can live up to the legend! 
(Ocelot rubs his gun slowly for Snake to see.) 
Ocelot   : This is the greatest handgun ever made.  The Colt Single Action Army. 
(Ocelot loads his gun.) 
 
(Snake crouches, ready to whip out his gun, Ocelot does the same.) 
Ocelot   : Draw! 
 
****************************************************************************** 
(They fight and after a few rounds are fired Ocelot pauses to reload his gun.) 
Ocelot   : Just what I'd expect from the man with the same code as the boss. It's been a long time since I've had such a good fight but I'm just getting warmed up. 
(Ocelot leaps out from behind the pillar ready to shoot but a cloaked figure jumps down from the ceiling and attacks him with a sword.  Ocelot's arm is cut off in the forearm.) 
Ocelot   : What!  My hand!!! 
(The figure quickly slices down all of the wires connected to the C4 and
the ropes binding Baker to the support pillar.  he falls to the ground
as the C4 explodes around him.  Ocelot is thrown against the wall by
the explosions.) 
Baker    : Aaaaaaahhh!! 
Ocelot   : Uuuunnhh!  Ooooof!  Stealth Camouflage, can't you even die right!? You were lucky, we'll meet again! 
(Ocelot runs out of the chamber as the figure reveals himself.  He is
decked out as a cyborg ninja.  Snake levels his gun at him.) 
Snake    : Who are you!? 
Ninja    : I'm like you... I have no name. 
Baker    : Ohhh... ohhhh!  That... that exoskeleton...! 
(The ninja ignores Baker and turns around to face Snake.  After a short
time of staring each other down the ninja begins to convulse.) 
Ninja    : Ggggyyyaaaaaaahhh!!!  Ggggyyyyaaaaaaaahhh!!! Gggggyyyyyaaaaaaaaaaahhhh!!! 
(The ninja stops convulsing and hurries out of the room, jumping about.
Snake holsters his weapon.) 
Snake    : Who the hell!? 
(Snake helps Baker up to his feet.) 
Snake    : Can you talk? 
Baker    : Who are you? 
Snake    : I'm not one of them.  The DARPA Chief told me he gave them his detonation code.  What about yours? 
Baker    : Oh, I get it.  Jim sent you... You... you're from the Pentagon. 
Snake    : Answer my question!  What about your code!?  There's no time! 
Baker    : I... talked. 
Snake    : What! Now the terrorists have both codes and can launch anytime! 
Baker    : It's not like I didn't fight.  I managed to resist Psycho Mantis's mind probe. 
Snake    : He couldn't read you?  How'd you do it? 
Baker    : Surgical implants in my brain. 
Snake    : Surgical implants? 
Baker    : Kind of like a psychic insulation.  Everybody who knows these top-secret codes has it. 
Snake    : Even the DARPA Chief? 
Baker    : Of course. 
Snake    : But the DARPA Chief said Mantis got his code by reading his mind. 
Baker    : Are you sure you heard him right? 
Snake    : Yeah, I'm sure.  In that case, how did they get your code? 
Baker    : I never had any training on how to resist torture... 
(Baker coughs violently, he is obviously in very bad shape.) 
Snake    : It looks like he had some fun with you all right. 
Baker    : He's not human.  I tell you, he loved every second of it. 
Snake    : What happened to your arm? 
Baker    : He broke it. 
Snake    : Looks like you're more than even now.  His was sliced off. 
Baker    : Ha. You're a funny man.  ...So... the DARPA Chief... is he okay? 
Snake    : Dead. 
Baker    : What!?  It can't be!  You know that's not what you promised, Jim! Now you want to shut me up! 
(Baker begins to whack Snake's leg with his cane.  Snake quickly calms
him down.) 
Snake    : Calm down!  What's wrong with you?  I just told you I was here to save you!  I didn't kill the DARPA Chief.  He had a heart attack or something. 
Baker    : A heart attack? Oh, don't be a fool. 
Snake    : Anyway, the terrorists have both codes now. 
Baker    : Those boys are totally insane.  They wouldn't hesitate to launch. 
Snake    : I agree.  But what do they really want? 
Baker    : Who knows.  Maybe they're like us in the arms industry... always looking forward to the next good war. 
Snake    : Well I'm not going to let these maniacs start a war toady.  Do you still have the card keys. 
Baker    : Card keys? 
Snake    : To override tge detonation codes!  I heard you had them... 
Baker    : No, not anymore. 
Snake    : What!?  Who does then!?  Not the terrorists!? 
Baker    : No, that woman. 
Snake    : Woman!?  Who!? 
Baker    : A soldier that was thrown in prison along with me. 
Snake    : A female soldier?  It must be... 
Baker    : She said that she had just joined up as a new recruit.  She said they threw her in prison because she refused to take part in the rebellion. 
Snake    : A new recruit?  Could that be the Colonel's niece!? 
Baker    : I gave her the key.  Looks like she managed to break out of here though. I hope she's okay. 
Snake    : I'm sure she is.  She's green... but as tough as they come.  But how did you know she escaped? 
Baker    : I was in contact with her by Codec.  Until I was tied up here that is. 
Snake    : Codec? 
Baker    : Yes.  She stole it from the guard.  If she still has it, you should be able to contact her. 
Snake    : I'm sure she still has it.  What frequency was she at? 
Baker    : Oh yeah.  Let me tell you.  It's... 
(Baker is struggling to remember.) 
Snake    : Huh? 
Baker    : ...Oh... sorry... I forgot... 
Snake    : Damn! 
Baker    : Oh that's right!  It should be on the back of the CD case.  Try to contact her. 
Snake    : I'll contact her right away.  But tell me... If this doesn't work, is there some other way to prevent the missile launch? 
Baker    : Hmmm.  You need to find Hal Emmerich, one of my employees. 
Snake    : Who's that? 
Baker    : The team leader of the Metal Gear Rex project.  A genius at engineering, but a little bit of an oddball.  If there is anyone who can figure out how to stop Metal Gear from launching, it's him. 
Snake    : What if he can't come up with anything? 
Baker    : You'll have to destroy it.  Emmerich knows how to destroy Metal Gear. 
Snake    : Where is this Emmerich? 
Baker    : Well... he's probably being held somewhere in the Nuclear Warhead Storage Building.  It's north from here.  That's where he worked. 
Snake    : I understand, but... why Metal Gear?  The Nuclear Age ended with the turn of the millenium. 
Baker    : You're wrong.  The threat of nuclear war isn't gone... in fact it's greater than it's ever been. 
(Scenes of missile launches, storage buildings, and missile silos are
shown.) 
Baker    : The amount of spent nuclear fuel and plutonium is increasing even today.  Listen, have you ever seen a warehouse full of nuclear material? 
Snake    : ...No. 
Baker    : Drums and drums of nuclear waste stacked this high.  As far as you can see because there's still no real way to dispose of the stuff. 
Snake    : So they just close the lid and pretend like it'll go away? 
Baker    : Essentially, yes.  And they're not even doing a good job of storing it.  Many of the drums are corroded... with nuclear waste seeping out of them. 
Snake    : Unbelievable. 
Baker    : Not only that, several pounds of MUF are reported every year. 
Snake    : MUF? 
 
(We go back to the chamber where Snake and Baker are conversing.) 
Baker    : In other words, there is plenty of nuclear material and scientists for making a bomb.  We live in an age when any small country can have a nuclear weapons program. 
Snake    : What about the other superpowers? 
Baker    : Russia and China still maintain a signifigant nuclear presence. Complete nuclear disarmament is an impossibility.  To maintain our own policy of deterrance, we need a weapon of overwhelming power. 
Snake    : You mean Metal Gear. 
 
Snake    : I remember hearing a lot about mergers and take-overs among the big weapons makers. 
Baker    : Yes.  And after my company lost their bid to produce the Air Force's next fighter jet, the Metal Gear project was out last ace in the hole.  That's why we pushed to have Metal Gear developed as a black project. 
Snake    : Black project? 
Baker    : Secret projects paid for by the Pentagon's black budget.  You can avoid a lot of red tape a get a great lead-time on your weapons production.  And no one can bother you.  Not even those bleeding heart liberals on the military oversight committee. 
Snake    : Bribes. 
Baker    : I prefer to think of it as good buisness.  Anyway, Metal Gear was going to be formally adopted after the results of this exercise were analyzed. 
Snake    : I don't give a crap about you and your company. 
Baker    : Yes, that's about what I'd expect from a grunt like you... Here, this is what you came for, right? 
(Baker fishes a disc out of his pocket and hands it to Snake.) 
Snake    : What's that? 
Baker    : An optical disk.  It's all here.  The main hard drive was destroyed by gunfire.  This is the only remaining copy of the data. 
Snake    : What kind of data? 
Baker    : All the data collected from this exercise.  Don't play dumb.  I know you were sent to get this.  I hid it from that sadistic maniac while he was torturing me.  They don't know that this disk exists. Make sure that you report this to Jim... to your boss.  I'll give you my card too.  It'll open up all level two security doors. 
Snake    : Can you walk? 
Baker    : ...No ...You go on without me.  They got my password... they don't want anything else from me. 
Snake    : I have one more question.  Who or what was that ninja thing?  It looked like you knew something. 
Baker    : That ninja?  That was FOX-HOUND's dark little secret. 
Snake    : Dark little secret? 
Baker    : An experimantal... genome... soldier... 
(Baker coughs once more.) 
Snake    : You know him? 
Baker    : You should ask Dr. Naomi Hunter from FOX-HOUND.  She knows better than I. 
Snake    : Naomi? 
Baker    : You've got to stop them.  If it goes public, my company and I are... finished. 
Snake    : What?  Doesn't Metal Gear use currently existing technology? 
Baker    : Metal Gear itself does, but... 
(Baker bends over in pain.) 
Snake    : Huh!? 
Baker    : What... what did you do to me!?  Uh... oooh...no!  ...Ooh.  Oh no, it can't be! ...those Pentagon bastards!  ...So they...they actually went ahead and did it! 
Snake    : What are you talking about!? 
Baker    : They... they're just... using you for... uuuhhh... 
(Baker slumps over and Snake stands in front of him stunned and
confused.) 
Snake    : What the hell? 
(After thinking for a moment he calls Campbell on the Codec.) 
Snake    : Colonel!  Are you listening?  Now he's dead too! 
Campbell : ...I have no idea! 
Snake    : Don't lie to me! 
Naomi    : It looked like another heart attcak but... 
Snake    : Some kind of poison!? 
Naomi    : Well, there are a lot of drugs that can cause a heart attack in large doses.  For example. potassium chloride or dioxides... But... we won't be able to tell without doing an autopsy. 
Snake    : Damn! 
Campbell : Snake, I want you and Meryl to work together! 
Snake    : Can I trust her? 
Campbell : ...More than you can trust me. 
Snake    : ...... 
Campbell : Get in contact with her. 
Mei Ling : Snake, there is a lot of electrical interferance coming from there. It should be okay if you do burst transmission like us but normal transmission is probably impossible.  Try moving away from that area. 
Campbell : Snake, get a hold of yourself. 
Snake    : Naomi, what the hell was that ninja thing? 
Naomi    : ..... 
Snake    : A member of FOX-HOUND? 
Naomi    : No... 
Snake    : Are you sure? 
Naomi    : Yes, we have no one like that in our unit. 
Snake    : Is that right? 
Campbell : Snake, I'm counting on you. 
(The transmission ends and Snake is left to find Meryl's Codec
frequency.  He does find it on the back of the CD case and contacts her.) 
Meryl    : Who are you? 
Snake    : I was really impressed with the way you busted yourself out of there. 
Meryl    : The one from the prison? 
Snake    : You're the Colonel's niece, Meryl, right? 
Meryl    : ....No... it's not him... Just exactly who are you? 
Snake    : I'm the fool that your uncle sent all alone into the middle of this whole mess. 
Meryl    : You came by yourself?  You think you're some kind of one-man army? You're not even armed. 
Snake    : I appreciate your help from before.  But... I don't need lectures. You're just like your uncle, you know. 
Meryl    : How do you know my uncle? 
Snake    : We go way back. 
Meryl    : What's your name? 
Snake    : My name's not important. 
Meryl    : Aha!  Could you be Snake?  Are you Solid Snake? 
Snake    : That's what some people called me. 
Meryl    : The legendary Solid Snake...!  You!?  Sorry about before.  I wasn't sure if you were one of the good guys. 
Snake    : But I knew you were. 
Meryl    : How? 
Snake    : It's your eyes. 
Meryl    : My eyes? 
Snake    : They're not soldiers eyes. 
Meryl    : They're rookie's eyes, right? 
Snake    : No, they're beautiful compassionate eyes. 
Meryl    : Just what I'd expect from the legendary Solid Snake.  You trying to sweep me off my feet? 
Snake    : Don't worry.  You'll land back on them once you meet me.  The reality is no match for the legend, I'm afraid. 
Meryl    : I don't believe that. 
Snake    : Why did you look surprised when you saw my face? 
Meryl    : Because you look just like him. 
Snake    : ...You mean the terrorists leader, Liquid Snake? 
Meryl    : Yeah, you know him?  You're not brothers are you!? 
Snake    : I have no family. 
Meryl    : So, what's the deal then? 
Snake    : Who knows.  Why don't you ask him?  But first I want some information.  You were involved in this excercise from the beginning. What exactly happened here? 
Meryl    : I'm sorry.  I was captured along with President Baker right after the terrorist attack. 
Snake    : That's okay.  But what is this place?  I don't think it is just a nuclear wepaons disposal facility... 
Meryl    : Boy oh boy... it's just like them!  Nobody told you anything, did they?  Okay... you see, this place isn't really for disposing nuclear weapons.  This base is owned and operated by a dummy corporation of ArmsTech. 
Snake    : This is a civilian base? 
Meryl    : Right.  For the development of Metal Gear. 
Snake    : Colonel! 
Meryl    : FOX-HOUND and the Next-Generation Special Forces were called here for the test launching of a dummy nuclear warhead. 
Snake    : Why FOX-HOUND? 
Meryl    : Because they're a Special Ops group used to handling top secret missions.  They figured they could keep it all hush-hush. 
Snake    : But we must have fired nuclear warheads before.  Why just this time? 
Meryl    : I heard it was because this was to be a final test before the formal adoption of the Metal Gear program... that's what I heard anyway. 
Snake    : Hmmm... sounds kind of fishy...  So what do you think the terrorists want? 
Meryl    : Sorry, I'm not sure.  I was captured with President Baker right after the revolt started. 
Snake    : Oh yeah, that's when he gave you the detonation override keys, right? 
Meryl    : That's right. 
Snake    : Amazing you were able to keep 'em hidden from the guards. 
Meryl    : Well... women have more hiding places than men.  Anyway, you met up with Baker, huh?  How's he holding up? 
Snake    : He's dead... 
Meryl    : What!? 
Snake    : Heart attack.  Same as the DARPA Chief. 
Meryl    : The Chief died from a heart attck too? 
Snake    : Yeah, was either of them sick or anything? 
Meryl    : No, not that I heard of. 
Snake    : Well, I don't believe in coincidences.  Something funny's going on. 
Meryl    : Hmmm.  Sounds like it. But I have no idea what. 
Snake    : Me neither... yet.  Do you know the person who designed Metal Gear? 
Meryl    : You mean Dr. emmerich? 
Snake    : Yes.  Is he still alive? 
Meryl    : Probably.  he should be in the second floor basemant of the Nuclear Warhead Storage Building to the north. 
Snake    : Second floor basement? 
Meryl    : Yeah, that's where his lab is.  I think they're forcing him to work on the nuclear launching program. 
Snake    : So they'll need him alive until that's done anyway. 
Meryl    : Then we'd better do something before he finishes. 
Snake    : You're right.  In case we can't override the detonation code in time, I need to ask him how to destroy Metal Gear. 
Meryl    : You plan to take that thing on by yourself, Snake? 
Snake    : It won't be the first time... 
Meryl    : ......... 
Snake    : What's the best way to get to the building where the Doctor is being held? 
Meryl    : There's a cargo door on the first floor of this building that leads to the north. 
Snake    : What's the security level of the door there? 
Meryl    : Five, but it's okay... I've got a level five card. 
Snake    : Well, I've got to go save the Doctor.  You should go... 
Meryl    : I'm going with you! 
Snake    : No way!  You're still too green.  I want you to hide somewhere. 
Meryl    : I'm not green. 
Snake    : Oh yes you are. 
Meryl    : .......... 
Snake    : You pause for just one second in front of your enemy and it's all over!  Good luck doesn't last forever! 
Meryl    : I don't know what happened.  I just couldn't pull the trigger right away.  I never had any problems in training... But when I thought about my bullets tearing through those soldiers' bodies, I hesitated. 
Snake    : Shooting at targets and shooting at living, breathing people are different. 
Meryl    : Ever since I was a little girl, I always dreamed of being a soldier.  Every day of my life, I've trained my mind and my body for the one day when I could finally see some real action, and now 
Snake    : So what now?  You wanna quit? 
Meryl    : I can't quit.  I can't alow myself to quit now. 
Snake    : Listen, Meryl.  Everybody feels sick the first time they kill someone.  Unfortunately, killing is one of those things that gets easier the more you do it.  In a war, all of mankind's worst emotions, worst traits come out. It's easy to forget what a sin is in the middle of a battlefield. 
Meryl    : But this isn't a war.  It's a terrorist action. 
Snake    : You're just a little jumpy from the combat high.  The adrenaline in your blood is starting to whin out.  Just take it easy. 
Meryl    : But I learned all about combat high at the academy... 
Snake    : We'll talk about it later.  For now, just think about keeping yourself alive. 
Meryl    : If I get out of here alive, I'll think about that other stuff. 
Snake    : Okay, let me try to say this another way... Stay the hell out of my way. 
Meryl    : You're a real bastard, just like my uncle said. 
Snake    : Ha ha, I told you.  The real me is no match for the legend. 
Meryl    : It looks like you were right.  Okay Snake, I'll be a good girl. 
Snake    : We'll link up after I grab the Doctor.  Then we'll take care of the detonation code override. 
Meryl    : Got ya.  But listen, I know this area better than you.  Call me if you have any questions. 
Snake    : Be careful, okay? 
Meryl    : After I open up the cargo door, I'll contact you. 
(Snake signs off and waits for Meryl to open the door.  When she does she calls him on the codec.) 
Meryl    : Snake, I unlocked the cargo door for you. 
Snake    : Thanks.  Where are you? 
Meryl    : Where I can see ya. 
Snake    : Don't move around too much. 
Meryl    : Don't worry, I'm disguised in this enemy uniform. 
Snake    : You won't be for long with the way you walk. 
Meryl    : What does that mean? 
Snake    : Oh... nothing. 
Meryl    : Listen Snake, the cargo door is like an airlock.  It's equipped with infrared sensors.  Be careful.  If an intruder is sensed, gas is released. 
Snake    : Gas... 
Meryl    : Okay, so we'll meet at the Nuclear Warhead Storage Building. 
Snake    : Wait!  You said you'd stay put and be a good girl! 
Meryl    : I changed my mind. 
Snake    : Don't get careless.  That is when things always turn sour. 
Meryl    : Sorry, but this is the only way I can figure out whether or not I'm cut out to be a soldier... I gotta get my hands dirty. 
Snake    : These guys are proffesionals.  You're gonna get yourself killed. 
Meryl    : See ya there! 
(The cargo door opens and Snake passes the infrared sensors easily by using his cigarettes to see the beams.  Once on the other side of the door he is contacted by an unknown person on the Codec.) 
???        : Snake, be careful!  There are Claymore mines around there. Use a mine detector. 
Snake      : Who are you? 
 
Snake      : Deepthroat?  The informant from the Watergate scandal? 
Deepthroat : Never mind about that. 
Snake      : You're not using burst transmission.  Are you nearby? 
Deepthroat : Listen.  There's a tank in front of your position waiting to ambush you. 
Snake      : Who are you anyway? 
Deepthroat : One of your fans. 
(Deepthroat signs off and now Snake proceeds through the canyon ahead of him using the mine detector he picked up.  When he is about halfway through a tank rolls out of a door at the other end and rolls towards him.  A man speaks from within the tank.) 
Raven    : This is Raven's territory... 
(The man who is speaking pops out the hatch of the tank and grabs the turret mounted machine-gun on top.) 
Raven   : Snakes don't belomg in Alaska, I will not let you pass.  Send him a message! 
(The tank fires a shell at Snake.  He does a quick backflip and dodges it by moving backwards through the air.  He lands hard in the snow.) 
Raven   : Ha ha ha ha ha... That's right, you belong on the ground.  You should crawl on the ground like the Snake you are. 
(Raven jumps back into the tank.) 
Raven   : Come.  Let's fight! 
(Snake battles the tank and defeats it.  The tank blows up and a Genome Soldier is thrown violently out of the tank, he lands on the ground dead.  Snake walks over to him and fishes around inside his pockets for something.  He finds it and walks over to the door the tank came out of.) 
Raven        : Well, Boss.  I hope you are happy.  He got the card. 
Man on Radio : ...We'll play with him a little longer... 
Raven        : You would be wise not to underestimate him. 
Man on Radio : What did you think of him? 
Raven        : He is just as you said.  In battle he is as if possessed by a demon.  Much like you.  I would expect no less. 
(Now Ocelot comes on the radio.) 
Ocelot       : You see?  I told you so.  But I will kill him. 
Raven        : So, General Ivan, I hear he took your hand as well as your dignity. 
Ocelot       : Watch your toungue, Shaman! 
 
Ocelot       : Well, Snake is mine now...  When I meet him next, I'll take special care of him. 
Man on Radio : Not yet... Don't kill him yet... 
Raven        : He and I will meet again in battle. 
Ocelot       : Same prediction as always? 
Raven        : Yes.  The raven on my head... it thirsts for his blood. 
(Snake is now inside the Nuclear Weapons Storage Building.  Campbell
calls on the Codec.) 
Campbell : Be careful.  You absolutely must not use weapons in that area. 
Naomi    : I've already programmed the nanomachines so that he won't be able to, Colonel. 
Snake    : What?  What are you talking about? 
Naomi    : Have you forgotten?  That's where they keep the nuclear warheads. Can't you see them? 
Snake    : Yeah.  There's lots of boxes piled up here, but... are they all warheads? 
Campbell : Yes.  They're all dismantled warheads. 
Snake    : They just leave them here?  It's like President Baker said... totally careless. 
Campbell : They're working on a limited budget.  They try to put on a pretty face for the media, but this is the grim reality of it.  Nastasha knows lots more than I do.  Her frequency is 141.52. 
Naomi    : All of the warheads in those boxes have had their detonation mechanisms removed so there's no fear of them exploding.  But is the warheads are broken they might leak plutonium and that would be a serious problem. 
Campbell : Snake, you must never use your weapon on that floor. 
(Snake gets through the level with no trouble but when he gets to the lower level of the building he comes across a room with many different hazards.  Once again Deepthroat calls.) 
Deepthroat : Snake!  Watch out!  That place is filled with gas.  Also, the floor is electrified.  First destroy the high voltage switch. Its the switchboard on the northwest wall. 
Snake      : But how?  I can't reach it. 
Deepthroat : Use a remote-controlled missile. 
(Snake finds a remote-controlled missile and destroys the switch.  He then goes down the corridor and into a room where there is no gas.  He hears noises of people being attacked.  Gunfire and screaming is heard. He goes into the next corridor and meets a gruesome scene.  The corridor is filled with slaughtered guards.  There is blood everywhere, on the floors, walls, and even on the ceiling.) 
Snake    : It looks like they were cut by some type of blade. 
(Snake then sees a guard stumble out from behind a corner. He is bleeding profusely.) 
Guard    : It's... it's a ghost!  Uuurgh! 
(The guard falls to the ground.  Snake rounds the corner and hears more gunfire.  He then sees a guard being held up in the air by some invisible figure.  It is the ninja.  He slices the guards back and then goes inside a door, taking no notice of Snake.  Snake follows him.) 
(Snake enters the lab and sees the ninja with his stealth camouflage on.  He is following a small, wirey scientist who is backing away into a corner.  The scientist is so scared that he wets his pants.) 
Scientist : Stealth camouflage?  Who are you? 
(The ninja turns off the stealth.) 
Ninja     : Where is my friend? 
Scientist : What... what are you talking about? 
(The scientist sees Snake approaching.) 
Scientist : What next? 
(The ninja turns around slowly to face Snake.) 
Ninja     : Snake!! 
Snake     : You're that ninja. 
Ninja     : I've been waiting for you, Snake. 
Snake     : Who are you? 
Ninja     : Neither enemy nor friend.  I am back from a world where such words are meaningless. I've removed all obstacles.  Now you and I will battle to the death. 
Snake     : What do you want? 
Ninja     : I've waited a long time for this day.  Now I wanto to enjoy the moment. 
Scientist : What... what's with these guys? It's like one of my Japanese animes... 
Ninja     : I've come from another world to do battle with you. 
Snake     : What is it? Revenge? 
Ninja     : It is nothing so trivial as revenge.  A fight to the death with you.  Only in that can my soul find respite.  I will kill you or you will kill me... it makes no difference. 
(Slowly the scientist gets up. He is carefully watching the two talk in case they were to see him.  He quickly runs to a locker and shuts the door before either Snake or the Ninja can stop him.) 
Scientist : Waaaaaaaaahhhhhh! 
Ninja     : Hah! Fine!  He can watch from inside there. 
Snake     : I need that man.  Keep your hands off him. 
Ninja     : Now Snake.  Make me feel alive again. 
(The ninja brandishes his sword at Snake and they battle.  After fighting for a while they pause.  The ninja is kneeling on the ground.) 
Ninja     : I felt that, Snake... Do you remember me now? 
Snake     : It can't be!  You were killed in Zanzibar... 
(Just like he did before the ninja convulses.) 
Ninja     : Eeeeeyaaaaaah! 
Snake     : What!?  Not again!! 
Ninja     : The... the mediciiiiine! 
(The ninja falls to the ground at Snake's feet and begins to bang his head on the ground.) 
Snake     : What's happening? 
Ninja     : ...I...I... I'm losing myself... 
Scientist : Is it over? 
Ninja     : Waaaaaaaaaaahhhh!!!! 
(The ninja runs out of the room quickly and leaves Snake behind.  Snake
quickly calls the Colonel.) 
Snake    : Grey Fox... Colonel, that ninja is Grey Fox.  No doubt about it. 
Campbell : Rediculous!  You of all people should know he died in Zanzibar. 
Naomi    : No, he should have died... but he didn't. 
Campbell : What!? 
Naomi    : It happened before I joined FOX-HOUND's medical staff.  They were using a soldier for their gene therapy experiments. 
Campbell : I never heard that. 
Naomi    : It happened right after you retired.  My predecessor, Dr. Clark, was in charge. 
Campbell : Dr. Clark... 
Naomi    : Yes.  He started the gene therapy project. 
Snake    : And where is he now? 
Naomi    : He was killed in an explosion in his lab two years ago. 
Snake    : And what about this soldier? 
Naomi    : Apparently for their test subject, they decided to use the body of a soldier who was recovered after the fall of Zanzibar... 
Snake    : And that was Grey Fox... 
Campbell : But he was already dead... 
Naomi    : Yes.  But they revived him.  They fitted him with a prototype exoskeleton and kept him drugged for four years while they experimented on him like a plaything.  Today's genome soldiers were born from those experiments. 
Campbell : That's the sickest thing I ever heard. 
Naomi    : They used him to test all sorts of gene therapy techniques. 
Snake    : Naomi, why didn't you tell us about this sooner? 
Naomi    : Because it's confidential information. 
Snake    : Is that the only reason? 
Naomi    : ... 
Campbell : Naomi: What happened to Grey Fox after that? 
Naomi    : The record says he died in the explosion. 
Campbell : I see... But even if that ninja is Grey Fox, the question is why? 
Snake    : From what I could tell, he didn't know who he was. 
Campbell : Are you saying that he's just a mindless robot? 
Snake    : I'm not sure, but he seems intent on fighting me to the death. We'll meet again, I know it. 
Naomi    : So you'll fight again?  Until you kill him? 
Snake    : Hmmmmm... I'd rather not, but maybe that's what he wants... 
Naomi    : .... 
(Snake signs off and approaches the locker where the scientist is hiding.) 
Snake     : How long are you going to stay in there? 
Scientist : Huh?  ...are you one of them? 
Snake     : No, I'm not.  I always work alone. 
Scientist : Alone?  Are you an Otaku too? 
Snake     : C'mon, get out.  We can't stay here forver. 
(The scientist finally opens the locker and looks at Snake.) 
Scientist : Your uniform is different from theirs. 
Snake     : You're the Metal Gear shief engineer, Hal Emmerich, right? 
Emmerich  : You know me? 
Snake     : I heard about you from Meryl. 
Emmerich  : Oh.  So you're here to rescue me? 
Snake     : Sorry, but no.  There's something that I've got to do first. 
Emmerich  : Oh, well... at least you're not one of them... 
(Emmerich begins to walk across the room, but he is limping badly.) 
Snake     : Huh?  Are you hurt? 
Emmerich  : I'm okay.  I just twisted my ankle a little bit trying to get away. 
Snake     : Well, if that's all, it's nothing to worry about. I want to ask you something.  I need information about Metal Gear. 
Emmerich  : Huh?  Metal Gear? 
Snake     : Yeah.  What's Metal Gear really designed for? 
Emmerich  : It's a mobile TMD.  It's designed to shoot down nuclear missiles, only for defensive purposes of course. 
(Snake grabs Emmerich by the collar and holds him up, shaking him.) 
Snake     : Liar!  I already know that Metal Gear is nothing more than a nuclear-equipped, walking death mobile. 
Emmerich  : Nuclear?  What are you talking about? 
Snake     : The terrorists are planning to use Metal Gear to launch a nuclear missile. You telling me I didn't know? 
Emmerich : They're going to put a nuclear missile into Metal Gear's TMD missile module? 
Snake     : Wrong.  From the beginning, the purpose of this exercise was to test Metal Gear's nuclear launch capability using a dummy nuclear warhead.  The terrorists are just continuing the work you started. 
(Snake throws Dr. Emmerich away from him.) 
Emmerich  : No, you're wrong.... 
Snake     : I heard it directly from your boss, Baker. 
Emmerich  : No... a nuclear missile on Rex? 
Snake     : ...So you really didn't know? 
Emmerich  : No. All the armamnet was built by a seperate department and the president personally supervised the final assembly of the main unit. 
Snake     : President Baker? 
Emmerich  : Yeah.  I was never told exactly what they armed Rex with. I...I only know it's equipped with a vulcan cannon, laser, and a rail gun. 
(Scenes of Metal Gear Rex are shown on screen.) 
Snake     : A rail gun you said? 
Emmerich  : Yeah.  It uses magnets to fire bullets at extremely high velocities.  The technology was originally developed for the SDI system and later scrapped.  We were successful in miniaturizing it in a joint venture between ArmsTech and Rivermore National Labs. The rail gun is on Rex's right arm. 
Snake     : Metal Gear's main funtion is to launch nuclear missiles.  You're sure you're not forgetting something? 
Emmerich  : It's true that Metal Gear has a missile module on his back that can carry up to eight missiles.  But are you saying it was originally meant to carry nuclear missiles? 
(We are now back in the lab where Otacon and Snake are talking.) 
Snake     : Yeah, but that's not all I think.  If Metal Gear fired only standard nuclear missiles, then they should already have all the practical data they need. 
Emmerich  : No... could it be? 
(Scenes of nuclear weapons exploding are shown.) 
Emmerich  : Metal Gear's co-developer, Rvermore National Labs, was working on a new type of nuclear weapon.  They were using NOVA and NIF laser nuclear fusion testing equipment and supercomputers. 
Snake     : So they developed a new type of nuclear weapon in a VR testing lab, huh? 
Emmerich  : Yes, but, you can't use virtual data on a battlefield.  They would need actual launch data. 
(We are back in the lab.  Emmerich shows Snake some of the supercomputers used to do the testing) 
Emmerich  : These are some of the supercomputers.  If you link these you can test everything in a virtual environment.  But it's all just theoretical. 
Snake     : So this exercise was designed to test the real thing? 
Emmerich  : What did our president do?  If the terrorists launch that thing... Damn!! ...Damn!! 
(Emmerich is on the ground now banging his fist against it.) 
Emmerich  : I'm such a fool!  It's all my fault... 
(Scenes from the Hiroshima bomb are shown.) 
Emmerich  : The truth is... my grandfather was part of the Manhattan Project. He suffered with the guilt for the rest of his life.  And my father... he was born on August 6, 1945... 
Snake     : The day of the Hiroshima bomb... God's got a sense of humour all right. 
Emmerich  : Three generations of Emmeich men... We must have the curse of nuclear weapons written into our DNA. 
(Back in the lab) 
Emmerich  : I used to think I could use science to help mankind. But the one that wound up getting used was me.  Using science to help mankind. that's just in the movies... 
Snake     : That's enough crying.  Pull yourself together!  Where is Metal Gear?  Where on this base are they keeping it? 
(Rex is shown.) 
Emmerich  : Rex is in the underground maintainence base. 
Snake     : Where is that? 
Emmerich  : North of the Communications Tower.  But it's a long way there. 
Snake     : The emergency override system for the detonation code is there too? 
Emmerich  : Yeah, in the maintenance base's Control Room.  You better hurry. If they were planning a launch from the start, then their ballistic program is probably finished.  And since they haven't called for me in a few hours, they must not need me.  In other words, they must be ready to launch. 
Snake     : Meryl's got the detonation override keys.  We'll link up with her. 
Emmerich  : If we can't override the launch we'll have to destroy Rex. 
(Back in the lab.) 
Emmerich  : I'll show you the way. 
(Emmerich makes to walk away but Snake stops him.) 
Snake     : On that leg of yours?  You'll just slow me down. 
Emmerich  : You'll need me if you're gonna destroy Rex. 
Snake     : I don't need you.  I just need your brain. 
Emmerich  : I created Rex. It's my right... my duty to destroy him. 
Snake     : If you get a chance, try to escape.  When the coast is clear I'll try to contact you by Codec. 
Emmerich  : How am I supposed to escape from an island? 
Snake     : Okay. 
Emmerich  : So what then? 
Snake     : I want you to hide somewhere and keep me informed.  You know this place well, don't you? 
Emmerich  : Of course I do.  And don't worry.  I've got this. 
(Emmerich reaches up to his shoulder and activates his stealth camouflage.) 
Emmerich  : It's the same stealth technology as the ninja.  FOX-HOUND was going to use them, but... With this I'll be fine, bad leg and all. 
Snake     : Good.  But I want Meryl to watch after you too. 
(Snake kneels down and calls Meryl on the Codec.) 
Snake     : Meryl, the engineer's okay. 
Meryl     : That's a relief. 
Snake     : I want you to look after him.  Where are you now? 
Meryl     : Very close. 
(Someone is shouting in the background.) 
Guard     : There she is!  Over there! 
Meryl     : Oh no!  Damn... they've spotted me!! 
Snake     : Meryl!  What happened!? 
(Snake signs off the codec quickly after Meryl goes offline.) 
Snake     : Something's wrong. 
Emmerich  : Did you hear something?  Wasn't that some kind of music? 
Snake     : What did she look like? 
Emmerich  : She... she was wearing the same green uniform as the terrorists. 
(Flashbacks to when Meryl excaped from the prison.) 
Snake     : A disguise? 
Emmerich  : She had such a cute way of walking.  She kind of wiggles her behind. 
Snake     : You were really looking. 
Emmerich  : Well... she's got a very cute behind... 
Snake     : Way of walking, huh? 
Emmerich  : If she's disguised as the enemy, you'll have to contact her when she's alone, huh?  There's only one place where we can be sure she's by herself. 
Snake     : Where's that? 
Emmerich  : Don't be so dense... 
(Emmerich pulls something out of his lab coat and hands it to Snake.) 
Emmerich  : Here, use this security card.  It's security level 4. 
Snake     : You're not in pain, are you? 
Emmerich  : Huh? 
Snake     : You feel okay?  Nothing bothering you? 
Emmerich  : What's wrong?  Getting all fiendly all of a sudden? 
Snake     : Oh nothing.... I'm glad you're okay. 
Emmerich  : You're strange. 
Snake     : I'm a little nervous.  Everyone else I've saved suddenly dies. 
Emmerich  : You're bad luck. 
Snake     : Forget it, Doctor. 
Emmerich  : Call me, Otacon. 
Snake     : Otacon? 
Otacon    : It stands for Otaku Convention.  An Otaku is a guy like me who likes Japanimation. 
(Japanese anime clips are shown.) 
Otacon    : Japan was the first country to successfully make bipedal robots. They're still the best today in the field of robotics. 
Snake     : And Japanese cartoons played some part in that? 
Otacon    : They did.  I didn't get into science to make nuclear weapons, you know. 
Snake     : That's what all scientists say. 
Otacon    : I became a scientist because I wanted to make robots like the ones in the Japanese Animes.  Really, it's true. 
Snake     : Just sounds like a childish excuse to me. 
Otacon    : You're right.  We have to take responsibility.  Science has always thrived on war.  The greatest weapons of mass destruction were created by scientists who wanted to be famous.  But that's all over now.  I won't take part in murder anymore. 
Snake     : Whatever.  All I want from you is information. 
Otacon    : Sure.  I know everything about this whole base.  About this base or Rex.  Also, with this stealth camouflage, I can sneak in and out of the armory and mess hall.  If you need ammo or rations, just tell me and I'll bring them to you. 
(Otacon turns on his stealth camouflage.) 
Otacon    : I'm on frequency 141.12.  See ya later. 
(Otacon exits the lab, leaving Snake behind.  Snake heads off to find Meryl. He does and meets her in the women's bathroom in the Nuclear Warhead Storage Building.) 
******************************************************************************  5.4   Life and Death 
****************************************************************************** 
Meryl     : That's the second time I've been able to sneak up on the legendary Solid Snake. 
(Meryl has her rifle pressed against Snake's back, unmenacingly.  Snake turns around to look at her.) 
Snake     : You're Meryl?  There's no way you could pass for a man for long. 
Meryl     : What do you mean?  Hey!  Men aren't allowed in here. 
Snake     : I had no idea you were so feminine. 
Meryl     : This is no time to try and hit on me, Snake.  Besides, it's a waste of time.  When I joined up they gave me psychotherapy to destroy my interest in men. 
Snake     : Same smart mouth.  You're Meryl all right.  Are you hurt? 
Meryl     : Not yet.  After all, I was disguised as a Genome Soldier. 
Snake     : So why'd you change?  You'd be better off dressed like one of them. 
Meryl     : I got tired of disguising myself.  The truth is... the uniform smelled like blood. 
(Snake sees Meryl's tattoo on her left arm.) 
Snake     : What's that mark? 
Meryl     : Huh?  Oh, this?  It's a paint tattoo.  It's not real.  I was a fan of FOX-HOUND way back.  When guys like you and my uncle were in it.  None of that gene therapy like there is today.  You guys were real heroes. 
Snake     : There are no heroes in war.  All the heroes I know are either dead... or in prison.  One or the other. 
Meryl     : But Snake.  You're a hero.  Aren't you? 
Snake     : I'm just a man who's good at what he does.  Killing.  There's no winning or losing for a mercenary.  The only winners in war are the people. 
Meryl     : That's right.  And you fight for the people. 
Snake     : I've never fought for anyone but myself. I've got no purpose in life.  No ultimate goal. 
Meryl     : Come on. 
Snake     : It's only when I'm cheating death on the battlefield.  The only time I feel truly alive. 
Meryl     : Seeing other people die makes you feel alive, huh?  You love war and don't want it to stop... Is it the same with all great soldiers throughout history? 
Snake     : Why didn't you contact me? 
Meryl     : My Codec was broken. 
Snake     : Is that all? 
Meryl     : Shouldn't you just be happy that we met up like this!?  How did you recognize me in disguise? 
Snake     : I never forget a lady. 
Meryl     : So there's something you like about me, huh? 
Snake     : Yeah, you've got a great butt. 
Meryl     : Oh, I see.  First it's my eyes, now it's my butt.  What's next? 
Snake     : On the battlefield you never think about what's next. 
Meryl     : So Snake... how are the negotiations doing? 
Snake     : No progress. 
Meryl     : So, it's all up to you, huh? 
Snake     : Somebody's got to prevent them from launching a nuclear missile. 
Meryl     : There are two ways.  Either we destroy Metal Gear, or... 
Snake     : ...we override the detonation code.  You got the card keys from Baker? 
Meryl     : Card keys? 
(Meryl reaches into her shirt and pulls out a card key.) 
Meryl     : You mean this? 
Snake     : Where are the others?  There should be three keys. 
Meryl     : This is all I've got. 
Snake     : Where could the other two be? 
Meryl     : I have no idea, but they must be somewhere.  If we can't find them we'll have no choice but to destroy Metal Gear. 
Snake     : Metal Gear is in an underground maintenance base to the north. 
Meryl     : Take me too.  I know this place better than you do. 
Snake     : You'll just slow me down.  You don't have enough battle experience. 
Meryl     : I won't slow you down.  I promise. 
Snake     : And what if you do? 
Meryl     : Then you can shoot me. 
Snake     : I don't like to waste bullets. 
Meryl     : Got it.  I'll be careful.  Y'know... I don't use makeup the way other women do... I hardly ever look at myself in the mirror. I've always despised that kind of woman.  I always dreamed of becoming a soldier.  But I was wrong.  It wasn't really my dream.  My father... he was killed in action when I was younger. 
Snake     : You wanted to follow in your father's footsteps? 
Meryl     : Not really.  I thought that if I became a soldier I could understand him better. 
Snake     : So are you a soldier yet? 
Meryl     : I thought I was until today.  But... now I understand.  The truth is I was just afraid of looking at myself.  Afraid of having to make my own decisions in life.  But I'm not going to lie to myself any more.  It's time I took a long, hard look at myself... I want to know who I am, what I'm capable of.  I want to know why I've lived the way I've lived until now.  I want to know. 
(Snake reaches for his SOCOM and loads a clip into it.) 
Snake     : Take a good look.  You won't get anothert chance for a while. You should wash your face while you're at it.  This isn't a training exercise.  Our lives are riding on this.  There are no heroes or heroins.  If you lose, you're worm food. 
Meryl     : Yeah. 
(Snake spots Meryl's FAMAS on the ground.) 
Snake     : Is that FAMAS functional? 
Meryl     : Unfortunately it's out of ammo. 
Snake     : Where'd ya' get that Desert Eagle? 
Meryl     : I found it in the armory.  It's a .50 caliber Action Express. There was a SOCOM pistol too, but I chose this. 
Snake     : Hmmm.  So I got a leftover, huh.  Isn't that gun a little big for a girl. 
Meryl     : Don't worry, I can handle it. 
(Snake holds his SOCOM out to Meryl.) 
Snake     : C'mon.  Use my .45. 
Meryl     : Listen, I've used a gun like this since I was 8 years old.  I'm more comforatble with it than I am with a bra. 
(Meryl pulls a clip of ammo out of her shirt and reloads her pistol.) 
Meryl     : If we're going to go to the north, we'll have to go through the Commander's Room on this floor.  The overland route is blocked by glaciers.  The door to the commander's room is security level five.  This card will open it. 
(Meryl pulls out a card.) 
Meryl     : It was inside the pocket of the uniform I was wearing. 
(She hands the card to Snake.) 
Snake     : Looks like he must have been guarding someplace important. 
Meryl     : Okay, let's go.  I know this place better than you.  I'll be point man.  Follow me. 
(Meryl exits the bathroom, Snake follows her.) 
Meryl     : That's strange.  There's no guard. 
Snake     : What happened to the music? 
Meryl     : I'll keep a look out.  Make sure you're ready, okay? 
(Snake and Meryl reach the entrance to the commander's room.) 
Meryl     : My head! ...Ooh.  It hurts! 
(Meryl kneels on the floor clutching her head.) 
Snake     : What's wrong? 
Meryl     : Don't come here, Snake! 
(We see views of the commanders room, as if somebody is waiting for them.) 
Snake     : Are you okay?  What happened? 
(Meryl stands up.  When she speaks her voice sounds different.) 
Meryl     : I'm fine.  Let's go. 
(Meryl walks to the door of the Commander's Room.) 
Meryl     : C'mon Mr. FOX-HOUND.  The commander is waiting. 
(They go into the Commander's Room.) 
(Meryl begins to jerk around.) 
Meryl     : Ah! 
(She points her handgun at Snake.  She begins to walk towards him, slowly. When she speaks her voice sounds strange.) 
Meryl     : Snake... do you... like me? 
Snake     : What the!? 
Meryl     : Do you like me?  Hold me, Snake. 
Snake     : What's wrong? 
Meryl     : Hurry... hurry!  Make love to me!!  Snake, I want you!! 
(We now see Psycho Mantis behind Meryl.  He is controlling her.) 
Snake     : Who's that!? 
Mantis    : Huh?  You don't like girls? 
(Campbell calls on the Codec.) 
Campbell  : Snake, Meryl's not herself.  Don't use your weapon. 
Naomi     : It's psycho Mantis.  He's controlling Meryl.  That tune is his mind control music. 
Campbell  : Don't use your weapon.  Try to knock her out. 
(Snake knocks her out easily.) 
Mantis    : Useless woman! 
(Snake takes not of Mantis' optical camouflage.) 
Snake     : Optic camouflage, huh?  I hope that's not your only trick. 
Mantis    : You!  You doubt my power!? 
(Snake ignores Mantis and checks on Meryl, to make sure she isn't hurt.) 
Mantis    : Now, I will show you why I am the most powerful practitioner of psychokinesis and telepathy in the world. 
(Mantis takes off his camouflage and we can see that he is floating in the air without any outside supports.  Snake is a bit surprised by this, he steps backwards.) 
Mantis    : No... there's no need for words, Snake.  I am Psycho Mantis. That's right... this is no trick.  It is true power. 
(Snake whips out his SOCOM and points it at Mantis.) 
Mantis    : It's useless.  I told you... I can read your every thought. Now... let me read your mind.  No... perhaps I should say your past. 
(At this point there are several things Mantis can say.  He will put together a combination of these to tell Snake somthing.) 
Mantis    : Still don't believe me?  Now I'll read more deeply into your soul. 
Mantis    : You still don't believe me?  I will show you my psychokinetic power.  Put your controller on the floor.  Put it down as flat as you can... that's good.  Now I will move your controller by the power of my will alone!! 
(Mantis now moves the controller by activating the vibration function.) 
Mantis    : What do you think now!?  Can you feel my power now!?  The demonstration is over!! 
(Snake battles Mantis.  Mantis begins to control Meryl again.) 
Mantis    : You are powerful indeed, but I know your weak point! 
Snake     : Meryl. 
Mantis    : Stand right where he can see you... and blow your brains out!!! 
Meryl     : Aaah!! 
Snake     : Stop! Meryl!! 
(Snake must once again knock Meryl out.  Mantis is immensly frustrated when he succedes.) 
Mantis    : Why!? 
Mantis    : Yes, stand right there and blow your brains out. 
(After Mantis is defeated, Snake calls Campbell on the Codec.) 
Snake     : Colonel, your niece is going to be okay. 
Campbell  : Thanks, Snake. I owe you one. 
Snake     : Now that Mantis is beaten, Meryl's brainwashing is going to wear off, right Naomi? 
Naomi     : Yes.  Why did you go so far out of your way to save her?  For Campbell's sake... or... maybe it's because you like her? 
Snake     : I don't want to see any woman die right in front of me. 
Naomi     : Oh really?  Since when did anybody's death bother you so much? 
Campbell  : Naomi!  It's true that Snake has killed a lot of people, that doesn't mean he doesn't have a heart. 
Snake     : It's okay, Colonel... she's right. 
Naomi     : ....... 
(Snake walks over to Mantis.) 
Mantis    : So... you used the other... I... I wasn't able to read the future... 
Snake     : A strong man doesn't need to read the future.  He makes his own. 
Mantis    : Perhaps so... But I will also read your future... 
(Meryl gets up from the floor.) 
Mantis    : To get to Metal Gear's underground maintenance base... you have to go through that hidden door.  There's a hidden door behind the bookcase.  The overland route... it's blocked by frozen glaciers. Go past the communications towers.  Then use the tower's walkway. 
(While Mantis is talking we see what he is talking about.  Snake kneels down beside Mantis.) 
Snake     : Why are you telling me this? 
Mantis    : I can read people's minds.  In my lifetime I have read the pasts, presents, and futures of thousands upon thousands of men and women. 
(Snake takes off Mantis's mask.  Meryl grabs her mouth, apparently horrified.) 
Meryl     : Oh... gross... 
Mantis    : And each mind that I peered into was stuffed with the same single object of obsession.  That selfish and atavistic dsire to pass on one's seed... it was enough to make me sick.  Every living thing on this planet exists to mindlessly pass on their DNA.  We're designed that way.  And that's why there is war.  But you... you are different... You're the same as us.  We have no past, no future.  We live in the moment.  That's out only purpose.  Humans weren't designed to bring eachother happiness.  From the moment we're thrown into this world, we're fated to bring each other nothing but pain and misery.  The first person who's mind I dove into was my father's.  I saw nothing but disgust and hatred for me in his heart.  My mother died in childbirth... and he despised me for it... I thought my father was going to kill me. 
(Now we see Mantis's spirit or soul floating above him.) 
Mantis    : That's when my future dissapeared.  I lost my past as well.  When I came to, the village was engulfed in flames... 
Snake     : Are you saying you burned your village down to bury your past? 
Mantis    : I see that you have suffered the same trauma. 
(Mantis laughs feebly.) 
Mantis    : We are truly the same, you and I... The world is a more interesting place with people like you in it... I never agreed with the Boss's revolution.  His dreams of world conquest do not interest me.  I just wanted an excuse to kill as many people as I could. 
(Meryl is taken aback by this.) 
Meryl     : You monster! 
Snake     : Let him talk.  He doesn't have much time left. 
Mantis    : I've seen true evil.  You Snake.  You're just like the Boss... No, you're worse.  Compared to you, I'm not so bad. 
(Mantis nods to Meryl.) 
Mantis    : I read her mind as well. 
Snake     : Meryl's? 
Mantis    : I saw you there... you have a large place in heart. 
(Meryl touches Snake's shoulder.) 
Snake     : A large place? 
Mantis    : Yes. A large place.  But I do not know if your futures lie together.  I have a last request. 
Snake     : What is it? 
Mantis    : My mask... put it back on. 
Snake     : Okay. 
(Snake hesitates to put it back on while Mantis is talking.  He holds it over his face.) 
Mantis    : Like this... other people's thoughts force their way into my mind. Before I die... I want to be by myself.  I want to be left alone in my own world. 
(Snake places the mask on Mantis' face and secures it with the straps.) 
Mantis    : I'll open the door for you. 
(Mantis reaches out a hand and moves it so that the bookshelf blocking the door moves out of the way.) 
Mantis    : If you want to find your future, go through that door.  This is the first time I've ever used my power to help someone.  It's strange... it feels... kind of... nice. 
(Mantis' head lolls to one side.  Snake pauses for a moment and then stands up.) 
Snake     : Let's go, Meryl. 
Meryl     : I'm sorry... 
Snake     : Meryl? 
Meryl     : How could I let Mantis control my mind like that... 
Snake     : If you're going to doubt yourself, I'll leave you here. 
Meryl     : You're right. 
Snake     : Never doubt yourself.  Just let it make you stronger.  Learn something from it. 
Meryl     : You're right.  I'm sorry.  I won't do it again. 
(Snake turns to leave.) 
Meryl     : Snake, can I ask you something? 
Snake     : What!? 
Meryl     : About what Mantis said... I was just wondering... 
Snake     : What?  What's the problem now? 
Meryl     : Oh no... nothing.  So tell me, Snake.  What's your name?  Your real name? 
Snake     : Name means nothing on the battlfield. 
Meryl     : How old are you? 
Snake     : OLd enough to know what death looks like. 
Meryl     : Any family? 
Snake     : No, but I was raised by many people. 
Meryl     : Is there anyone you like? 
Snake     : I've never been interested in anyone else's life... 
Meryl     : So you are all alone.  Just like Mantis said. 
Snake     : Other people just complicate my life.  I don't like to get involved. 
Meryl     : You're a sad, lonely man. 
Snake     : C'mon... let's go. 
(Snake and Meryl head out the hidden door.) 
Meryl     : Okay, I'll take point again.  Follow me. 
(Snake has to follow Meryl through a cave with a dozen or so wolf-dogs patrolling it.  When they see him they attack him.  Eventually, Snake meets up with Meryl on the other end of the cave.) 
Meryl     : What's wrong, Snake? I thought you were good with dogs? 
(They go into the next room.  They find themselves in the Underground Passage. Meryl stops Snake from advancing, because of mines.) 
Meryl     : Hold up, Snake!  This place is mined. 
Snake     : The radar isn't working.  And since we can't use the mine detector either... 
Meryl     : Leave it to me... 
(Meryl walks through the mine field and gets to the other side unscathed.) 
Snake     : How did you know where the mines were? 
Meryl     : When Mantis dove into my mind, I could see where the mines were placed. Are you impressed? 
Snake     : Well... a little bit. 
(Now we see a set of crosshairs centered on Snake.  They move to Meryl.  She turns around.) 
Snake     : Meryl!! 
Meryl     : What is it? 
(The laser point on Meryl moves down to her right thigh.) 
Snake     : Meryl, get down!!! 
(Meryl is shot in the leg.) 
Meryl     : Aaaaaahhhh!! 
Snake     : Meryl!! 
(Snake quickly takes cover behind the wall and looks over to Meryl.  She is on her knees now.  She is shot again, this time in her left leg.) 
Meryl     : Aaaaaaaaahhhh!!! 
(She collapses in a pool of blood and tries to reach her gun beside her.  The sniper acts quickly and shoots her in the arm.) 
Meryl     : Aaaaaaaghhhh!!! 
(Meryl gives up and lies on her back, bleeding badly.  Snake tries to move
towards her, but he is met by a bullet that hist the wall right near him.) 
Meryl     : Snake.... leave me and run... 
Snake     : Meryl... 
Meryl     : I guess... I am a rookie after all... 
Snake     : Don't worry, Meryl.  It's me they want. 
Meryl     : Even I know that, it's the oldest trick in the book.  The sniper's using me for bait to lure you out. 
Snake     : Damn!! 
Meryl     : Shoot me, Snake!! 
Snake     : No! 
Meryl     : My gun... I can't reach it by myself. 
Snake     : Don't move! 
Meryl     : I promised... I wouldn't slow you down!  I... I... I can still help... I want to help you! 
Snake     : Quiet down!  Save your strength! 
Meryl     : I was a fool, I wanted to be a soldier.  But war is ugly... There's nothing glamorous about it.  Snake, please!  Save yourself.  Go on living and don't give up on people!  Don't forget me... Now get out of here! 
(Snake's Codec is ringing.) 
Campbell  : Meryl!  Damn!! Snake, it's a trap!  Sniper's trick to lure you out.
The sniper's waiting for you to go and help Meryl so he can pick you off...
Don't do it! 
Naomi     : It must be Sniper Wolf, FOX-HOUND's best shooter. 
Snake     : Sniper's usually work in pairs, but this one's alone, huh? 
Naomi     : I know her.  She can wait for hours, days, or weeks, it doesn't matter to her.  She's just watching and waiting for you to expose yourself. 
Snake     : Maybe so, but Meryl can't hold out that long... 
Naomi     : Snake, can you see Wolf from where you are? 
Snake     : There's no where to hide between here and the tower... she must be on the second floor of the tower. 
Campbell  : If Wolf is in the Communications Tower, she can see you perfectly! It's the classic sniper's position!!  At that distance you won't be able to hit her with a standard weapon either!  You'll need a sniper rifle. 
Snake     : Colonel!  Take it easy. 
Campbell  : ...... 
Snake     : I'm going to save Meryl no matter what it takes. 
Campbell  : Okay, thanks. 
Naomi     : ...... 
Snake     : What's wrong, Naomi? 
Naomi     : Nothing... I'm just surprised you're willing to sacrifice yourself... you've got the genes of a soldier, not a savior. 
Snake     : Trying to say that I'm only interested in saving my own skin? 
Naomi     : I wouldn't go that far but... 
Snake     : I don't know what the hell my genes look like and I don't care. I operate on instinct. 
Naomi     : Like an animal? 
Snake     : I'm going to save Meryl.  I don't need an excuse. 
Naomi     : Okay... 
Snake     : And I'm not doing it for someone else either.  I'm going to save Meryl by myself.  Colonel, don't worry! 
Campbell  : Snake, thanks. 
Naomi     : I understand.  I'm sorry. 
(Snake goes off to find the PSG1.  He finds it in Armory.) 
Campbell  : You've got a PSG1?  Hurry up and save Meryl! 
(Snake hurries off to the Underground Passage.  He battles Wolf and defeats her.  Meryl has been taken away so he proceeds through the Underground Passage looking for her.  He reaches the door on the other end but three heavily armed guards rappel from the ceiling behind him.) 
Guards    : Freeze!! 
(Snake holds up his hands and looks at the guards, waiting for something to happen.) 
Wolf      : It's hard to miss when you're this close. 
(Snake sees Wolf approaching him with her rifle pointed squarely at his chest.) 
Wolf      : Toss your weapon over here.  Slowly... 
(Snake slides his SOCOM across the floor, one of the guards picks it up.
Wolf and one of the guards go closer to him.) 
Wolf      : You are a fool to come down here.. stupid man! 
Snake     : A lady sniper, huh? 
Wolf:       Didn't you know that two thirds of the world's greatest assassins are women?  Do you want to die now?  Or after your female friend? Which will it be? 
Snake     : I'll die after I kill you. 
(She lets out a small laugh.) 
Wolf      : Is that right?  Well at least you've got spirit. 
(Wolf lets down her gun and runs her hand through her hair.) 
Wolf      : I am Sniper Wolf and I always kill what I aim at. 
(She walks over to him and reaches up to his face.) 
Wolf      : You're my... special prey.  Got it? 
(She scratches Snake's cheek, drawing blood. Snake lets out a small grunt.) 
Wolf      : I've left my mark on you... I won't forget it.  Until I kill you, you're
all I'll think about. 
(The guard closest to Snake whacks him in the head with the but of his rifle.
Snake falls to the floor, unconscious.) 
Snake     : Uuuuhh!! 
Guard     : Take him away! 
(Snake is dragged away back down the Underground Passage, away from where he was heading. We now see a faint outline of something onscreen, there are distant voices.) 
Liquid    : Don't kill him yet. I want him alive. 
Ocelot    : Leave it to me. 
Liquid    : I want no more accidents like that DARPA Chief. 
Wolf      : Yes.  He's my target.  Mine alone. 
(We now see an overhead medical lamp.  There are background noises of computers running.) 
Liquid    : Can you hear me, Solid Snake? 
Wolf      : He's tougher than I thought... 
Liquid    : Do you know who I am?  I always knew that one day I would meet you. The man who stole what was rightly mine... the man who stole my birthright.  Me? I'm the man you stole everything good from. And now, after the sacrifice of our brothers... after 30 long years, finally the two of us meet.  The brother of light and the brother of dark. 
Wolf      : Do you need his DNA too? 
Liquid    : Yes, I want a sample while he's still alive.  We need it to correct the Genome Soldier's mutations. 
Wolf      : Then we'll be able to cure them? 
Liquid    : No.  We still have to get our hands on Big Boss's DNA. 
Wolf      : Have they given in to our demands yet? 
Liquid    : Not yet. 
Wolf      : They won't give in.  They're all hypocrites, every one of them. 
Liquid    : Is that your opinion as a Kurd? 
Wolf      : They always put politics first. 
Liquid    : That's right.  That's why they want to avoid any leak about their precious new nuclear weapon. 
Ocelot    : Boss, it looks like our friend is awake. 
(Snake is abruptly brought down somewhere to face Liquid, who is standing in front of him.  Snake is strapped into a revolving metal bed.) 
 
(Liquid's cell phone rings, he pulls it out hurridly.) 
Liquid    : It's me... Really?  Then what?  Those idiots!  All right Raven. I'll be right there. 
(Liquid puts it away and talks to Wolf and Ocelot.) 
Liquid    : They're not responding to our demands.  We'll launch the first one in 10 hours as planned. 
Wolf      : Damn Americans!! 
Ocelot    : Looks like you read them wrong. 
Liquid    : Something's funny... Normally the Americans are the first ones to the negotiating table.  They must think they've go something up their sleeves. 
Ocelot    : So it's come down to it, has it.  We're going to launch that nuke and ride it all the way into history. 
Liquid    : I've got to take care of some launch preparations.  You're in charge here, Ocelot. 
(Ocelot speaks to Sniper Wolf.) 
Ocelot    : What about you?  Wanna stay for the show? 
Wolf      : I'm not interested.  It's time to feed the family. 
(Wolf shakes around a small canister of pills.  She takes a few out and
swallows them.) 
Ocelot    : So, you prefer your wolves to my show, huh? 
Liquid    : Ocelot, don't screw up like you did with the Chief. 
Ocelot    : Yes, I know.  That was an accident.  I didn't think a pencil pusher like him would be so tough. 
Liquid    : Well... his mental defenses were reinforced by hypnotherapy. 
Ocelot    : Boss, what about that ninja? 
Liquid    : He killed 12 men.  Whoever he is, he's some kind of lunatic. 
Ocelot    : Bastard took my hand... How could he have gotten in here? 
Liquid    : Perhaps there's a spy among us... Mantis is dead.  We've also got to find out what killed Baker and Octopus.  We're shorthanded, so make this little torture show of yours as short as possible. 
Ocelot    : Torture?  This is an interrogation. 
Liquid    : As you wish. 
(Liquid turns to Snake.) 
Liquid    : See you later, brother... 
(Liquid leaves.  Wolf walks up to Snake.) 
Wolf      : Your woman is still in this world... 
Snake     : Meryl... 
Wolf      : Catch you later, handsome... 
(Wolf leaves.) 
Ocelot    : Once she picks a target, she doesn't think about anything else. Sometimes she even falls in live with thwm before she kills them. Finally, just the two of us.  How are you feeling? 
Snake     : Not bad.  I caught a nice nap on this revolving bed of yours.  Too bad I was sleeping alone. 
Ocelot    : Glad to hear that.  This is some bed all right.  I'm about to show you some of its nicer features... 
Snake     : Where are my things? 
Ocelot    : Oh don't worry.  They're all there.  Washington was taking quite a chance sending you here.  Someone must have had a lot of faith in your skill.  Huh, carrier boy? 
Snake     : So, Metal Gear is armed with a new type of nuclear warhead, huh? 
Ocelot    : Why don't you go ask Campbell for the full story? 
Snake     : The Colonel? 
Ocelot    : By the way, you get an optical disk from President Baker, didn't you? 
Snake     : What if I did? 
Ocelot    : Is that the only disc?  There's no other data? 
Snake     : What do you mean? 
Ocelot    : There's no copy?  If not, that's fine. 
Snake     : Is Meryl okay? 
Ocelot    : She's not dead yet.  Wolf must have been feeling generous.  But if you want her to stray that way you better start answering my questions right now.  You were holding one card key.  Where are the other two?  What's the trick behind that key!?  That weasel of a president said there's some kind of trick to using the key. 
Snake     : Hell if I know. 
Ocelot    : I see.  No problem then.  We're going to play a game, Snake.  And we'll find out what kind of man we really are.  When the pain becomes too great to bear just give up and your suffering will end.  But if you do, the girl's life is mine. 
(Snake is brought back to his cell.  He sees a dead body laying in the corner.) 
Snake     : Looks like I've got a roommate.  The DARPA Chief!?  Whew...what a stench! 
(Campbell calls on the Codec.) 
Campbell  : Snake, are you okay? 
Snake     : I've been better. 
Naomi     : How's Meryl? 
Snake     : ........ 
Campbell  : ........ Snake, the government has decided not to give in to their demands.  We're trying to buy some more time. 
Snake     : C'mon, Colonel.  Why don't you stop playing dumb?  I'm sorry about Meryl but I want the lies to end now. 
Campbell  : What are you talking about? 
Snake     : Metal Gear was designed to launch a new type of nuclear warhead, wasn't it? 
Campbell  : ! 
Snake     : You knew it all along, didn't you? 
Campbell  : ....... 
Snake     : Why did you try to hide it? 
Campbell  : ...I'm sorry... 
Snake     : Can't tell the grunts, huh?  ...You've changed a lot.  Metal Gear... secret advanced nuclear weapons research...  Does the White House know about this?  How deep does it go? 
Campbell  : As far as I know, as of yesterday, the President had not  been briefed about the Rex Project. 
 
Campbell  : These are sensitive times.  Even sub-critical nuclear tests are causing quite a stir. 
Snake     : Plausible deniability, huh? 
Campbell  : Yes.  And tomorrow the President and his Russian counterpart are scheduled to sign the Start 3 Accord. 
Snake     : I get it.  That's the reason for the deadline. 
Naomi     : That's right, Snake.  And that's why we can't let the terrorist attack go public. 
Campbell  : We still haven't even ratified Start 2 or dealt with the issue of TMDs.  This has to do with the Presodent's reputation and America's place as the dominant superpower. 
Snake     : So patriotism is your excuse for circumventing the Constitution? 
Campbell  : Please, Snake... just stop them. 
Snake     : Why should I? 
Campbell  : Because you're the only one who can. 
Snake     : In that case, tell me the truth about this new type of nuclear warhead. 
Campbell  : I told you before.  I don't knwo the details. 
Snake     : I don't believe you.If the situation is so serious, why don't you give in to their demands?  Let them have Big Boss's remains. 
Campbell  : You see... 
Snake     : Or is there some reason that you can't do that?  Something you haven't told me about? 
Naomi     : Publicly, the President has been very vocal in his opposition to eugenics experiments.  We don't want the existance of the Genome Army to go public. 
Snake     : And that's the only reason? 
Campbell  : ....... 
Snake     : Huh!  The hell with you! 
Campbell  : I'm sorry. 
Snake     : The corpse of the DARPA Chief is lying right here next to me. 
Naomi     : Poor man. 
Snake     : But it's strange.  He looks and smells like he's been dead for days. All his blood's been drained out too. 
Campbell  : Drained!? 
Naomi     : Maybe to slow down decomposition? 
Snake     : I have no idea. 
Naomi     : But the Chief only died a few hours ago, right? 
Snake     : Right.  But he's already started to decompose. 
Naomi     : What could it all be about? 
Snake     : SOmething in his blood that they wanted? 
Naomi     : I doubt it.  Just the nanomachines and the transmitter. 
Campbell  : Did the Chief tell them his detonation code? 
Snake     : I'm afraid so.  It looks like they've got both codes and are nearly ready to launch. 
Campbell  : Damn.  Is there any way to prevent it? 
Snake     : It seems there's some type of emergency override device that can cancel out the detonation code.  It's a countermeasure that ArmsTech installed secretly.  You have to unlock it with three special card keys. 
Campbell  : And where are those keys? 
Snake     : I've got one of them.  I don't know where the other two are. Besides, I'm locked up here. 
Campbell  : We've got no choice.  Forget about the keys.  Your top priority now is to destroy Metal Gear itself.  Sorry to lay it all in your lap, but you're all I've got.  Bust out of there and get to the Communications Tower. 
Naomi     : ....... 
Snake     : .......  Naomi, please talk to me.  Say something to take my mind off the pain. 
Naomi     : What can I say? 
Snake     : Anything. 
Naomi     : I...I'm not a very good talker. 
Snake     : Please... tell me about yourself. 
Naomi     : Myself?  That's a tough one... 
Snake     : Any family? 
Naomi     : That's not a very happy topic for me. 
Snake     : I don't have any family.  No wait, there was a man who said he was my father... 
Naomi     : Where is he? 
Snake     : Dead.  By my own hand. 
Campbell  : Big Boss. 
Naomi     : What!? Big Boss!?  I had no idea. 
Campbell  : There was no way you could.  It happened in Zanzibar 6 years ago. Only Snake and I know the real truth of what happened there. 
Naomi     : So, is it true?  Was Big Boss really your father? 
Snake     : That's what he said.  That's all I know. 
Naomi     : And you were able to kill him, knowing that? 
Snake     : Yup. 
Naomi     : How? 
Snake     : He wanted it.  Besides, some people just need killing... 
Naomi     : That's patricide. 
Snake     : Yup.  That's the trauma that Mantis was talking about.  The one we share in common. 
Naomi     : Is that why you left FOX-HOUND? 
Snake     : Let's just say that I needed to be alone for a while and Alaska was the perfect place... 
Naomi     : ...Snake... I didn't have a real family either.  Just a big brother who put me through school.  We weren't even blood-related and he was much older than me. 
Snake     : Where is he? 
Naomi     : He's dead... 
Snake     : I'm sorry. 
Naomi     : ...Snake, is there a woman in your life? 
Snake     : After you've been through as many wars as me, it's hard to trust anyone. 
Naomi     : Friends? 
Snake     : Roy Campbell... 
Campbell  : Huh?  You're still calling me friend? 
Naomi     : Is that it? 
Snake     : No, there was another... Frank Jaeger. 
Naomi     : What!? 
 
Naomi     : ........ 
Snake     : I learned a lot from him. 
Naomi     : But... didn't you try to kill each other? 
Snake     : That's true.  We did.  In Zanzibar.  But it was nothing personal. We were just proffesionals on opposite sides, that's all. 
Naomi     : And you still call yourselves friends? 
Snake     : Hard to believe?  War is no reason to end a friendship. 
Naomi     : That's insane. 
Snake     : I first met him on the battlefield.  He was being held a prisoner of Outer Heaven.  But he didn't look like a prisoner to me.  He was always so cool and precise.  I was still green and he showed me the ropes. 
Naomi     : You knew him well? 
Snake     : No.  We never talked about our personal lives.  Sort of an unwritten rule.  The nest time I saw him on the battlefield, we were enemies.  We were fighting barehanded in a minefield.  I know it sounds strange to most people.  But we were just two soldiers doing our jobs.  It's like a sport. 
Naomi     : Men and their games!  You're like wild animals! 
Snake     : You're right.  We are animals. 
Naomi     : So if you were friends, then how do you explain the Ninja's behavior? 
Snake     : I don't know. 
Naomi     : It's your genes... they make you predisposed towards violence! 
Snake     : You really like talking about genes, Naomi.  Why did you get into genetic research anyway? 
Naomi     : I never knew who my parents were or even what they looked like. I guess I got into genetics because I wanted to figure out why I'm the way I am. 
Snake     : So you studied about DNA? 
Naomi     : Yeah.  I thought if I studied my genetic structure, I'd find out who I really was.  I thought that by analyzing a person's genetic information, I could retrieve the blank spots in that person's memory. 
Snake     : Memory is stored in DNA? 
Naomi     : We're not sure.  But we know that a person's genetic fate is determined just by the sequence of the four bases in their DNA. 
Snake     : So what about my fate? You know my DNA sequence, don't you? 
Naomi     : Your fate?  I...I'm sorry.  I have no idea. 
Snake     : Of course not.  You're a scientist, not a fortune-teller. 
Naomi     : ......... 
(Snake ends his talk with Naomi and calls Otacon.) 
Snake     : Otacon, are you still okay? 
Otacon    : Yeah.  Thanks to the stealth camouflage, that is. 
Snake     : I have a favor to ask.  I need your help. 
Otacon    : I was wondering when you'd ask.  What should I do? 
Snake     : I've been captured.  I'm locked up here in this cell. 
Otacon    : What cell? 
Snake     : There's a big torture machine nearby. 
Otacon    : Okay.  I know it.  It's close.  I'll be there right away. 
Snake     : Thanks. 
(Snake waits for Otacon to arrive.  The guard who si watching Snake has a bowel
attack.) 
Guard     : Aaachoo!  That witch!  She took my clothes!  Oh... my stomach. 
(The guard goes to the bathroom.) 
Otacon    : Hey! I'm here! 
(Snake looks around but doesn't see anybody.) 
Snake     : Where? 
Otacon    : Here. 
(Otacon takes off his stealth camouflage.  He is by the cell door.) 
Otacon    : It's me. 
Snake     : Otacon! 
Otacon    : Wow!  They even captured you! 
(Snake grabs Otacon and shakes him.) 
Snake     : Hurry!  Get me out of here! 
Otacon    : Let me go!  That hurts! 
Snake     : Hurry up! 
Otacon    : Is that how you ask a guy a favor?  Let me go.  Jeez, it's like an animal's cage.  ...What a smell! 
(Snake points to the DARPA Chief.) 
Snake     : Because of him. 
Otacon    : Eeyaaah!  It's the DARPA Chief!! 
Snake     : If you don't hurry up and get me out of here, I'll be laying next to him. 
Otacon: Those bastards!  This lock won't open up with a security card.  You
need a key like the soldiers carry. 
Snake: So what are you doing here then? 
(Otacon reaches into his coat and pulls two objects out.) 
Otacon: I... I thought you might be hungry.  If you need more food, I can bring
some more later. 
(He has ketchup and a hamburger.) 
Otacon: Also, I got this level 6 card, it'll get you out of that torture room.
Here... take this too. 
(Otacon takes yet another thing out of his coat.) 
Snake: What's that. 
Otacon: It's a hankerchief.  I got it from Sniper Wolf. 
Snake: Why? 
Otacon: I don't know why, but she's nice to me. 
Snake: Sounds like Stockholm Syndrome to me. 
Otacon: I was taking care of the dogs here.  After the terrorists take over,
they were planning to shoot all the dogs.  But Sniper Wolf stopped them... she
even let me feed them when I asked.  She likes dogs.  She must be a good
person.  Please don't hurt her. 
Snake: Wake up you idiot!  She's the one who shot Meryl! 
Otacon: Well, that's all I can do... 
Snake: They're planning to launch a nuke!  I've got to stop them! 
Otacon: Then you'll have to get past the Communications Tower. 
Snake: First, you have to get me out of here! 
Otacon: C'mon...I'm trying my best...
Snake: That guard's got the key.  You'll have to take him out! 
Otacon: Gimme a break!  I'm no soldier!  I can't take anybody out! 
Snake: You have to!! 
Otacon: I'll be killed! 
(The guard opens the bathroom door.) 
Otacon: Oh jeez.  He's coming back... see ya later... 
(Otacon turns and leaves.) 
Snake: Wait! 
(Snake waits for the guard to come back.  He breaks the ketchup bottle and uses
it to make fake blood.  The guard is alerted.) 
Guard: What the hell! 
(The guard rushes into the cell and Snake quickly takes him out.  After getting all his stuff Snake heads for the Communications Tower.  Snake gets to the spot where Meryl was shot.  He stops and thinks back.) 
(Meryl is shot in both legs.  She collapses to the ground.  Meryl tries to
reach her gun beside her.  The sniper acts quickly and shoots her in the arm.) 
Meryl     : Aaaaaaaaahhhh!!! 
(She collapses in a pool of blood and tries to reach her gun beside her.  The sniper acts quickly and shoots her in the arm.) 
Meryl     : Aaaaaaaghhhh!!! 
(Meryl gives up and lies on her back, bleeding badly.  Snake tries to move
towards her, but he is met by a bullet that hist the wall right near him.) 
Meryl     : Snake.... leave me and run... 
Snake     : Meryl... 
Meryl     : I guess... I am a rookie after all... 
Snake     : Don't worry, Meryl.  It's me they want. 
Meryl     : Even I know that, it's the oldest trick in the book.  The sniper's using me for bait to lure you out. 
Snake     : Damn!! 
Meryl     : Shoot me, Snake!! 
Snake     : No! 
Meryl     : My gun... I can't reach it by myself. 
Snake     : Don't move! 
Meryl     : I promised... I wouldn't slow you down!  I... I... I can still help... I want to help you! 
Snake     : Quiet down!  Save your strength! 
Meryl     : I was a fool, I wanted to be a soldier.  But war is ugly... There's nothing glamorous about it.  Snake, please!  Save yourself.  Go on living and don't give up on people!  Don't forget me... 
(Campbell calls on the Codec.) 
Campbell  : Snake, about Meryl... 
Snake     : Colonel, I'm sorry... 
Campbell  : Listen to me. 
Snake     : I wasn't able to protect her. 
Campbell  : Snake, it's okay.  You did what you could, now let it rest. 
Snake     : Colonel... 
Campbell  : She joined up of her own free will.  I'm sure she was prepared for this. 
Snake     : No.  You're wrong. 
Campbell  : ...? 
Snake     : Meryl thought she had to become a soldier... thought it was the only way.  She said she thought it woul;d bring her closer to her dead father. 
Campbell  : She said that!? 
Snake     : She wasn't ready for real combat.  I shouldn't have pushed her so hard.... It's all my fault. 
Master    : That's not like you, Snake. 
Campbell  : Master.  What is it? 
Master    : Sorry for eavesdropping, but I just couldn't listen anymore. 
Snake     : Master... 
Master    : Snake, you can have regrets if you want to... it's only natural. But you can't keep attacking yourself for things that happened in the past.  That road leads to madness, believe me. 
Mei Ling  : He's right.  Don't kick yourself.  It doesn't suit a legend like you. And besides that, for all we know Meryl's okay, right? 
Snake     : Mei Ling... 
Campbell  : Snake, forget about Meryl.  Stop Liquid.  That's what Meryl would want, too. 
Snake     : You're right.  Meryl would say the same thing. 
Naomi     : Snake. 
Snake     : What? 
Naomi     : Meryl...she's pretty special to you, huh? 
Snake     : Yes, she's special.  There aren't many women like her around. 
Naomi     : That's not what I meant... 
Snake     : She's the Colonel's niece... and a combat buddy. 
Naomi     : Is that all?  C'mon... 
Snake     : This is like a police interrogation. 
Naomi     : No, I just... 
Campbell  : I guess it's in the genes... 
Snake     : The genes?  What are you talking about, Colonel? 
Campbell  : No, I just remembered about Naomi's grandfather.  I think Naomi said he rose as high as assisstant secretary in the FBI during Edgar Hoover's time. 
Snake     : Is that right? 
Naomi     : Yes...yes, he was Japanese and he became a special undercover investigator to nab the mafia. 
Master    : When was that? 
Naomi     : Oh.. sometime in the 50's, I guess. 
Master    : Where? 
Naomi     : New York, I think... 
Master    : Naomi, I thought you didn't have any family... 
Naomi     : Well...I...I researched it after I became an adult.  My grandfather was already dead by the time I learned about him.  I never even had the chance to meet him. 
Campbell  : Oh... 
Naomi     : Snake, good luck. 
Campbell  : Watch your back, Snake. 
 
****************************************************************************** 
(Snake signs off and heads for the Communications Tower.  he reaches the top
but as soon as he tries to cross to the second tower it is destroyed by
missile fire.) 
Snake     : Damn! 
(Suddenly Liquid comes into view with his Hind.) 
Liquid    : Snaaaaake!!  I'm afraid I can't let you get past here! 
Snake     : Liquid? 
Liquid    : You're not going any farther.  Die!!! 
(Snake looks over the side of the tower.) 
Snake     : It's a long way down. If only I had a rope.  I should be able to use that rope I got... 
Liquid    : What are you going to do? Take on a Hind with your bare hands? Now you're mine! 
Snake     : If I stay here, I'm finished. 
(Snake uses a rope that he acquired earlier to descend from the tower.  He
reaches tower B but finds that the stairs to the bottom are destroyed and he
cannot pass. He heads back up.  He hears a noise so he whips around the
corner with his gun.) 
Otacon    : Don't shoot!!  It's me! Don't shoot!  It's me, Snake!! 
Snake     : Otacon? How'd you get here? 
Otacon    : It wasn't as dramatic as your entrance, believe me. I'm afraid of heights. 
Snake     : You were watching? 
Otacon    : Yeah, I was watching.  I was riding in the back of their truck... thanks to the stealth camouflage. 
Snake     : How did you get up here? 
Otacon    : The elevator, of course. 
Snake     : The 1st floor of the circular staircase was destroyed. 
Otacon    : That's why I took the elevator... 
Snake     : The elevator was working? 
Otacon    : Yeah, that's right. You're incredible... like a movie hero or something. 
Snake     : No...you're wrong.  In the movies, the hero always saves the girl... 
Otacon    : ...You mean Meryl? ...Sorry... forget I said anything... Snake, there's something I've really got to ask you. It's why I followed you up this far...  Have you ever ...loved someone? 
Snake     : That's what you came to ask? 
Otacon    : No I mean... I... I was wondering if even soldiers fall in love... 
Snake     : What are you trying to say? 
Otacon    : I wanna ask you... Do you think love can bloom even on a battlefield? 
Snake     : Yeah...I do.  I think at any time, any place... people can fall in love with each other.  But... if you love someone, you have to be able to protect them... 
Otacon    : I think so too. 
Snake     : I have a favor to ask. 
Otacon    : Uh oh. 
Snake     : Don't worry. It'll be easy. 
Otacon    : Umm...I told you before, I don't wanna hurt anyone. 
Snake     : I don't want you to either. 
Otacon    : Okay... 
Snake     : The elevator is stopped down there. I want you to get it to move. You see? 
Otacon    : That's weird. 
Snake     : It was working before, but now it isn't. 
Otacon    : ...Maybe the panel's broken? 
Snake     : Can you fix it? 
Otacon    : It was working before. If it's the mechanism, leave it to me. 
Snake     : I've got to go and swat a noisy fly. 
Otacon    : Okay. I'll stay here and hold the fort.  Good luck. 
Snake     : You really look like hell. Are you okay? 
Otacon    : Don't worry.  If I do this, it doesn't matter.  I just pretend like I'm not here. Then I'm not scared. 
(Otacon turns on his stealth camouflage.) 
Snake     : Strange logic. I'm counting on you. 
(Otacon runs off to repair the elevator. Snake reaches the top of Comm. Tower B
and comes face to face with Liquid's Hind.) 
Liquid    : So the Snake's finally come out of his hole?  Are you ready now... my brother? 
Snake     : Why are you calling me brother?  Who the hell are you!? 
Liquid    : I'm you.  I'm your shadow. 
Snake     : What!? 
Liquid    : Ask the father that you killed! I'll send you to hell to meet him!! 
(Snake fights the Hind D and defeats it.  Liquid is now fighting to get it stablized.) 
Liquid    : C'mon, fly!  Damn!!  Snaaake!! 
(The Hind falls from the sky and explodes in a huge fireball.) 
Snake     : See you in hell...Liquid.  That takes care of the cremation. 
(Otacon calls on the Codec.) 
Otacon    : Snake, the elevator's working. 
Snake     : You fixed it? 
Otacon    : No, that's the weird thing.  It just moved by itself. It's headed your way now. 
Snake     : Is that so? Okay. 
Otacon    : That explosion before... what was it? 
Snake     : Oh, I had to take out that helicopter. 
Otacon    : Helicopter? That's incredible, Snake! 
Snake     : Listen. I just want to make sure again.  This is the way to get to where Metal Gear is being stored? 
Otacon    : Yeah. The entrance to the underground maintenance base is towards the back of the snowfield ahead. 
Snake     : Okay. Find a safe place to hide out for a while.  I'm going underground. 
Otacon    : I know, I know. You don't have to tell me. 
Snake     : And stay outta my way. Don't try to be a hero or anything. 
Otacon    : Okay, call me if you need to. 
Otacon    : Snake, there's something I forgot to tell you before. 
Snake     : What? 
Otacon    : There were five stealth camouflage prototypes in my lab. 
Snake     : Yeah, so? 
Otacon    : If you take out the one I'm wearing, that leaves four. 
Snake     : Hey. This isn't first grade math class. 
Otacon    : I thought I'd get one for you, so I went back to the lab and... 
Snake     : Yeah? 
Otacon    : The four suits were missing. 
Snake     : .........? 
Otacon    : Also...about the elevator that I checked out... It's really strange.  It was like someone was intentionally holding it. 
Snake     : When you were riding on it, did the weight limit warning go off? 
Otacon    : That's another thing that bothered me about it... The warning went off and I know I couldn't be over the limit. 
Snake     : How much do you weigh? 
Otacon    : About 135.  But that elevator had a weight limit of 650 pounds. 
Snake     : It would take at least five people to go over that limit... 
Otacon    : L...Look out, Snake!  The guys who stole my stealth prototypes are in there with you!!! 
Guard     : Too late, Snake!  Now die! 
******************************************************************************  5.6   Love on the Battlefield 
****************************************************************************** 
(Snake battles the guards and defeats them.  Snake enters the snowfield but when he is halfway across he is shot at by a sniper.) 
Otacon    : Snake!! Are you okay!? 
Snake     : Otacon! Were there any other stealth prototypes? 
Otacon    : No. There were only five. 
Snake     : So...this isn't stealth camouflage then... 
Otacon    : What are you talking about? 
Snake     : Someone's aiming at me... in the middle of this blizzard... 
Otacon    : ...It's her!! 
Snake     :  Wolf? ...Sniper Wolf? 
Otacon    : Yes it's her! ...It's definitely her! 
Snake     : Otacon... You sound like you're happy. 
Otacon    : No I'm not. 
Snake     : So then what is it? 
Otacon    : Snake... please don't kill her! 
Snake     : Are you insane!? 
Otacon    : Please. She's a good person! You'd know that if you talked to her... 
Snake     : Listen to me, kid. She's a merciless killer. 
Wolf      : I can see you perfectly from here.  I told you... I'd never quit the hunt. Now you're mine. 
Otacon    : Wolf! No, you can't! 
Wolf      : Don't get between a wolf and its prey! 
Snake     : You're pretty good if you can hit me in this storm. 
Wolf      : You see?  Women naturally make better soldiers. 
Otacon    : Wolf! Don't do this!! 
Wolf      : Snake, I'm near.  Can't you sense me near you? 
Snake     : It's a mistake for a sniper to reveal her location. 
Wolf      : Is that right?  Well I'm going to send you a love letter, my dear. Do you know what that is? It's a bullet straight from my gun to your heart. 
Otacon    : Please!!  Wolf!...Snake!...No! 
Wolf      : Quiet!  Don't get in our way! 
Snake     : Now I'm gonna pay you back for Meryl... 
Wolf      : You men are so weak.  You can never finish what you start... 
(Snake battles Sniper Wolf and defeats her.  He finds her after the battle
lying in a pool of blood in the snow.  He kneels down beside her.) 
Wolf      : I... I've... ...waited for this moment... I am a sniper. Waiting is my job... Never moving a muscle... concentrating... 
(Wolf coughs up blood.) 
Wolf      : I am lung-shot. Y...you cannot save me.  Please... Just finish me quick. I am a Kurd. I have always dreamed of a peaceful place like this... 
Snake     : A Kurd? So that's why you're called Wolf... 
Wolf      : I was born on a battlefield.  Raised on a battlefield. Gunfire, sirens and screams... they were my lullabies... Hunted like dogs day after day... driven from our ragged shelters... That... was my life.  Each morning, I'd wake up... and find a few more of my family or friends dead beside me.  I'd stare at the morning sun... and pray to make it through the day. The governments of the world turned a blind eye to our misery.  But then... he appeared. My hero... Saladin... he took me away from all that... 
Snake     : Saladin? ...You mean Big Boss? 
Wolf      : I became a sniper... hidden, watching everything through a rifle's scope.  Now I could see war, not from the inside, but from the outside, ...as an observer... I watched the brutality... the stupidity of mankind through the scope of my rifle.  I joined this group of revolutionaries... to take my revenge on the world. But... I have shamed myself and my people.  I am no longer the wolf I was born to be... In the name of vengeance, I sold my body and my soul.  Now...I am nothing more than a dog. 
 
Wolf      : Who are you? ...Are you Saladin? 
Snake     : Wolf... you spared Meryl's life. 
Wolf      : She... she was never my real target... I don't kill for sport. 
Snake     : Rest easy.  You'll die as the proud wolf you are. 
Wolf      : I finally understand.  I wasn't waiting to kill people... I was waiting for someone to kill me.  A man like you... You're a hero. Please... set me free. 
(Snake slowly rises and draws his gun.  Otacon comes running across the field
still in his stealth camouflage.) 
Otacon    : Why...!?  I loved you... 
(Wolf reaches her arm out to her side.) 
Snake     : What is it? 
Wolf      : My gun... give it to me... 
(Otacon quickly scampers over to her gun and returns it to her.) 
Wolf      : She's part of me. 
(She clutches it to her chest.) 
Wolf      : Everyone's here now.  Okay, hero, set me free. 
(Snake slowly points his gun as Otacon turns around and puts his hands over his ears.) 
Otacon    : Goodbye... 
(The screen turns white as Snake fires.  Now both men are standing over her.) 
Otacon    : Snake, you said that love could bloom on a battlefield... But I couldn't save her. 
(Snake bends down over Wolf's body.) 
Otacon    : What are you doing? 
Snake     : Returning it to it's owner.  I don't need a hankercheif. 
Otacon    : Why? 
Snake     : I don't have any more tears to shed. 
(Otacon starts sobbing.) 
Snake     : I'm going to the underground base.  We're out of time. 
Otacon    : I know. 
Snake     : You'll have to protect yourself now.  Don't trust anyone. 
Otacon    : Yeah... 
Snake     : If I can't stop Metal Gear, this whoe place will probably be bombed to hell. 
Otacon    : ...Yeah... 
Snake     : We might not meet again. 
Otacon    : I'll hang onto my Codec.  I wanna keep helping. 
Snake     : You can leave any time.  Get a headstart... a headstart on your new life. 
(Snake begins to walk away.) 
Otacon    : Snake!!  What was she fighting for?  What am I fighting for!? What are you fighting for!? 
Snake     : If we make it through this, I'll tell you. 
Otacon    : Okay.  I'll be searching too. 
******************************************************************************  5.7   The Truth 
****************************************************************************** 
(Snake heads for the Underground Base.  Eventually, when he is on a cargo elevator, heading deeper into the base, he is contacted by Master Miller.) 
Master    : Snake, there's something I've got to tell you about Naomi Hunter? 
Snake     : What about her? 
Master    : Is this conversation secure? 
Snake     : Don't worry.  The monitor's off. 
Master    : Okay. 
Snake     : What's up? 
Master    : I was in the FBI too, y'know. 
Snake     : I didn't know that.  What's your point? 
Master    : Dr. Hunter's story about her background... about her grandfather being an assistant secretary to Hoover in the FBI... 
Snake     : Yeah? 
Master    : And then going undercover to investigate the mafia in New York... 
Snake     : Yeah, what about it? 
Master    : It was all a big lie. 
Snake     : What did you say? 
Master    : It was really bothering me.  Why would she lie about it? 
Snake     : She lied? 
Master    : She might be a spy! 
Snake     : Rediculous! 
Master    : C'mon.  Even a high school student could see past it.  The head of the FBI at that time, Edgar Hoover... he was a well known racist. Didn't Naomi say that her father was Japanese? 
Snake     : Yeah... 
Master    : Well back then there wasn't a single Asian investigator.  Also, in the 1950's the undercover mafia sting operations hadn't even started yet.  They first started in 1960... in Chicago, not New York. 
Snake     : But... 
Master    : You better check it out.  The chief and the president dying, that ninja... too many strange things are happening. 
Snake     : Are you saying that Naomi might be behind it? 
Master    : I don't know.  Either that or she's working with the terrorists. 
Snake     : Could it be...? 
Master    : If I find out anything, I'll call.  In the meantime, be careful! 
(Snake gets off the elevator and enters a large warehouse.  There are crows flying around in it.  He sees a large man sitting atop one of the boxes.  It is Vulcan Raven.  He stands up.) 
Raven     : Welcome, kasack!!  This is the end of the road for you!  Right my friends? 
(The ravens start making noise.) 
Raven     : Listen.  They agree.  Ravens aren't scavengers like most people think... They are simply returning to the natural world that which is no longer needed.  Sometimes they even attack wounded foxes. 
Snake     : You were the one in the M1 tank?  Must have been a tight fit for a big boy like you. 
Raven     : Ha ha ha ha ha... But that was no true battle. 
(Raven leaps down from the crate and lands with a thud.) 
Raven     : The ravens and I were testing to see what kind of man you were. The judgement is decided.  The ravens say you are a true warrior. 
(Something bright emanates from Raven's forehead and flies towards Snake.) 
Snake     : Am I hallucinating? 
(A raven comes and sits on Snake's shoulder.) 
Snake     : I... I can't move... 
Raven     : The Raven has put the mark of death upon you.  Blood from the east flows within your veins. Ah... your ancestors too were raised on the barren plains of Mongolia.  Inuit and Japanese are cousins to each other...  We share many ancestors, you and I... 
Snake     : I don't have any crows in my family tree. 
Raven     : You jest but indeed ravens and snakes are not the best of friends. Nevertheless you will make a worthy adversary.  You live in Alaska too.  You know of the World Eskimo-Indian Olympics? 
 
 
Snake     : You want to pull each other's ears? 
Raven     : The form is different, but the spirit is the same.  Rejoice, Snake! Ours will be a glorious battle. 
Snake     : This isn't glorious.  It's just plain killing.  Violence isn't a sport! 
Raven     : Well, we will see if there is iron in your words!! 
(Snake battles Raven and defeats him.  Raven is now leaning against the wall, breathing hard.) 
Raven     : Just as the Boss said... it is my existance wihich is no longer needed in this world. 
(A raven lands on Raven's shoulder.) 
Raven     : But my body will not remain in this place.  My spirit and my flesh will become one with the ravens.  In that way I will return to Mother Earth who bore me.  Snake!  My spirit will be watching you... understand? 
(Snake walks over to Raven.) 
Raven     : Snake, take this security card.  It wil open that door. 
Snake     : Why? 
Raven     : You are a snake which was not created by Nature.  You and the Boss... you are from another world... a world that I do not wish to know.  Go and do battle with him.  I will be watching from above.  First, I'll give you a hint... The man who you saw die before your eyes... 
(Scenes of the DARPA Chief dying are shown.) 
Raven     : That was not the DARPA Chief.  It was Decot Octopus.  A member of FOX-HOUND.  He was a master of disguise.  He copied his subjects down to the blood.  So he drained the Chief's blood and took it into himself.  But he wasn't able to decieve the Angel of Death. 
Snake     : The Angel of Death?  But why go to so much trouble?  Why impersonate the Chief? 
Raven     : That is the end of my hint.  You must solve the rest of the riddle yourself. 
(Ravens take off from all around and gather around Raven as Snake walks away.) 
Raven     : In the natural world, there is no such thing as a boundless slaughter.  There is always an end to it.  But you are different. 
(The raven's begin to eat away at Raven while he is still alive.) 
Snake     : What are you trying to say? 
Raven     : The path you walk on has no end.  Each step you take is paved with the corpses of your enemies...  Their souls will haunt you forever... you shall have no peace... Hear me, Snake!  My spirit will be watching you! 
(Snake turns around and all that is left of Vulcan Raven is his Vulcan Cannon.) 
******************************************************************************  5.8   Betrayal 
****************************************************************************** 
Snake    : Master? 
Master   : It's about Naomi. Turn your monitor off... 
Campbell : What about Naomi? 
Master   : Damn! 
Snake    : Colonel, is Naomi there? 
Campbell : No, she's away.  She's taking a short nap.  So what is this about Naomi? 
Master   : Okay.  Maybe we'd better let the Colonel hear this too. 
Snake    : Yeah.  Go on, Master... 
Master   : Well basically, Dr. Naomi Hunter is not Dr. Naomi Hunter at all. 
Campbell : What!? 
Master   : I thought her story about her background sounded a little fishy, so I checked it out. 
Campbell : And...? 
Master   : There is an actual Dr. Naomi Hunter, or I should say there was one... But she's not the woman we know.  The real Noami Hunter disappeared somewhere in the Middle East.  Our Naomi must have somehow gotten her identification papers. 
Campbell : Then who is she really? 
Master   : She must be some kind of... spy. 
Campbell : A spy!? 
Master   : Yes... maybe she's been sent to sabotage this operation. 
Campbell : Are you saying she's with the terrorists? 
Snake    : ...I don't want to believe it either.  But she is working for FOX-HOUND. 
Campbell : So you think she had a part in the uprising? 
Master   : Or she could be working with some different group all together. 
Campbell : Different group...?  It couldn't be... 
Master   : Place her under arrest. 
Campbell : What! 
Master   : She's betrayed us.  She needs to be arrested and interrogated to find out who she's with. 
Campbell : If she's one of their spies, then we're really in big trouble... 
Snake    : What do you mean!? 
Campbell : Oh nothing.... 
Master   : Have you let her in on some sort of vital secret or something? 
Campbell : ......... 
Master   : Does this have anything to do with the mysterious deaths of the DARPA Chief or the ArmsTech president? 
Campbell : I... I have no idea. 
Master   : Anyway, we cannot allow her to participate any further in this mission. 
Campbell : Wait, wait a minute.  Without her, we can't complete this mission. 
Snake    : I knew it.  You're hiding something. 
Campbell : Give me some time.  I'll try to get it out of her... 
Master   : Hurry then.  We've got to find out who she is and what she's doing here. 
Campbell : I understand.  Snake, give me some time. 
Snake    : I don't have any time left for you. 
(Snake signs off and heads into the room where Metal Gear REX is stored. Otacon calls on the Codec.) 
Otacon   : Snake... it's me. 
Snake    : What's wrong?  Did you find a good place to hide? 
Otacon   : Yeah, thanks to the stealth gear.  It looks like they've finished getting Metal Gear ready. 
Snake    : How do you know that? 
Otacon   : I overheard them talking.  Where are you now? 
Snake    : Right in front of Metal Gear... but it's strange. 
Otacon   : What is? 
Snake    : There's nobody here... no guards, nobody patrolling... it's too quiet. 
Otacon   : Maybe because they're all ready.  They said they even input the PAL codes. 
Snake    : What should I do? 
Otacon   : All we can do is use the override system that President Baker told you about. 
Snake    : But I've only got one of the three keys.  And besides that, like Ocelot said, there's some trick to using the keys... 
Otacon   : Leave it to me... 
Snake    : You got some kind of plan? 
Otacon   : Well, I'm in the computer roo right now.  I'm trying to access Baker's private files. 
Snake    : Baker's files?  Don't you need a password? 
Otacon   : Of course.  But there are ways... 
Snake    : Are you a hacker? 
Otacon   : Yup.  That describes me pretty well. 
Snake    : Does it look like you can get in? 
Otacon   : I don't know yet.  I'll give it a try. 
Snake    : I'm counting on you... 
(Snake signs off.  Otacon calls later with an update.) 
Otacon   : It's me again. 
Snake    : How's it going? 
Otacon   : Hmmm... not bad.  I just got past his third security level.  He was a pretty careful guy. 
Snake    : Do you think you'll break in soon? 
Otacon   : I've never met a system I couldn't bust into. 
Snake    : Okay, keep trying. 
(Snake signs off again and later Otacon calls again.) 
Otacon   : Snake, I did it! 
Snake    : You got past security? 
Otacon   : Bingo!!! 
Snake    : Great.  So whaddya got? 
Otacon   : I accessed the confidential Metal Gear file. 
Snake    : So what about the PAL override system that Baker talked about? 
Otacon   : I haven't found it yet. 
Snake    : That's what I need to know! 
Otacon   : But Snake, I found something else! 
Snake    : What? 
Otacon   : The secret behind the new nuclear weapon!  Just as I thought, the nuclear warhead is designed to be fired from the rail gun, like a projectile... It doesn't use fuel so it isn't considered a missile. That way it can get around all sorts of international treaties. 
Snake    : Pretty sneaky. 
Otacon   : Yes, but effective.  And that's not even the scariest thing about this weapon. 
Snake    : I can't wait to hear this. 
Otacon   : It's a stealth weapon! 
Snake    : You mean it won't show up on radar? 
Otacon   : Yeah.  The truth is... they've been working on a stealth missile since the late 70's. 
Snake    : Why weren't they able to develope one until now? 
Otacon   : Because of the missile's rocket propulsion system... it will be picked up by enemy satellites. 
Snake    : Oh yeah, that makes sense. 
Otacon   : But unlike a missile, the rail gun doesn't burn any propellant.  So it can't be detected by any current ballistic missile detection systems. 
Snake    : An invisible nuclear warhead... 
Otacon   : Totally impossible to intercept.  And on top of that, it's got a surface piercing warhead designed to penetrate hardened underground bases. 
Snake    : We learned that lesson in the Gulf War. 
Otacon   : This thing could mean the end of the world! 
Snake    : It's the ultimate weapon.  And from a political point of view, it avoids the problem of nuclear reduction and nuclear inspections. Colonel, is this true?  Are you listening? 
Campbell : I'm listening... 
Snake    : If word of this got out, it could delay the signing of the Start 3 Treaty and cause a huge international incident. 
Otacon   : Yeah, it would be nasty.  The United States would be denounced by the UN... it could even bring the President down... 
Snake    : Did you know this, Colonel? 
Campbell : I'm sorry... 
Snake    : You've changed, Colonel. 
Campbell : I won't make any excuses... 
Otacon   : Snake, listen to me.  This new nuclear weapon... it's never actually been tested, only simulated. 
Snake    : You mean they ran a computer model? 
Otacon   : Yeah, that's why they were conducting this excercise.  They needed to get actual data to back up the simulation. 
Snake    : What were the results of the excercise? 
Otacon   : It looks like it went better than they hoped for.  But...I can't find the data anywhere on this network.  You'd think that data as important as that would be carefully recorded... 
Snake    : It was.  President Baker gave me an optical disc with all of the test data. 
Campbell : What!? Do you still have it? 
Snake    : No, Ocelot took it from me. 
Campbell : Damn... 
Otacon   : The terrorists have replaced the dummy warhead with a real warhead. Once they input the detonation codes, they should be ready to launch. 
Snake    : So you think they can do it? 
Otacon   : Well the dummy warhead was designed to be identical to the real thing, so I think so. 
Snake    : Did you find out how to override it yet? 
Otacon   : Not yet.  It must be in a separate file.  Right now, I'm looking through all of Baker's personal files. 
Snake    : We're counting on you... 
(Snake enters the control center of the Rex hangar.  He sees Liquid and Ocelot talking.) 
Ocelot   : Okay. I've entered the PAL codes and disengaged the safety device. We can launch anytime. 
Liquid   : There's still no response from Washington. It looks like we'll have to show them that we mean business. 
Ocelot   : Should I set it for Chernoton, Russia? 
Liquid   : No, there's been a change. The new target is...Lopnor, China. 
Ocelot   : Why Boss? 
Liquid   : I'm sure neither you nor Mr. Gurlukovich would really like to see a nuclear bomb dropped on your Motherland, right? 
Snake    : Liquid! 
Ocelot   : But why? There's nothing there. 
Liquid   : Wrong. It's a nuclear test site. 
Ocelot   : A nuclear test site? 
Liquid   : If we nuke a major population center, the game's over... But a nuclear explosion at a test site can still be concealed from the public. Meanwhile Washington will be worried about the retaliatory strike from China. 
Ocelot   : That'll probably mean top secret talks between both countries' leaders... 
Liquid   : Of course. And in the process, the President will be forced to divulge the existence of a new and highly destabilizing nuclear weapon to the Chinese. What do you think that will do to the U.S.'s reputation? Or the President's? 
Ocelot   : And with the CTBT, that means that China and India... I see... 
Liquid   : Yes. When the other countries hear about this new weapon, they'll all want to contact us. Washington won't be very happy when we start selling their own system to the highest bidders. Yes. The President will break. He will give in to our demands. 
Ocelot   : Big Boss's DNA and one billion dollars... 
Snake    : One billion dollars! 
Liquid   : That money will be used to cure our genome soldiers as well. I'm also including the FoxDie vaccine in our demands. 
Ocelot   : FoxDie... It killed Octopus and the ArmsTech president... So it's true that it affects older people first. Mantis might not have been affected because he wore a mask. 
Liquid   : Wolf wasn't infected either. Perhaps due to those tranquilizers she always took. 
Ocelot   : Something to do with the adrenaline level in the blood? Or maybe it's just because this FoxDie was still experimental and they haven't worked out all the bugs yet... 
Liquid   : In any case, have you heard from your friend, Colonel Sergei Gurlukovich at the Spetznaz? 
Ocelot   : He still has doubts about the ability of Metal Gear. He said we can talk after Metal Gear's test launch is successful. 
Liquid   : He is a very prudent man. 
Ocelot   : There's nothing to worry about. The Colonel wants Metal Gear and the new nuclear weapon so bad he can taste it. If Russia wants to regain its position as a military superpower, they need to reinforce their nuclear arsenal. They need a nuclear weapon that can't be intercepted. Metal Gear will allow them to gain first strike capability over the rest of the world. 
Liquid   : Their regular army is in shambles and they think they can restore their country's military power with nuclear weapons? Gurlukovich... he's no warrior... he is a politician. 
Ocelot   : But he's the one who gave us the Hind and most of our other heavy firepower. 
Liquid   : He's got over a thousand soldiers under his command. If we joined forces we could put up quite a resistance here. Since Mantis died, the genome soldiers' brainwashing has started to wear off. I'm worried about the men's morale. An alliance with the Russians would boost that as well... 
Ocelot   : What are you saying? 
Liquid   : We're not going anywhere. We're going to dig in here. 
Ocelot   : We could still escape... 
Liquid   : We've got the most powerful weapon ever made and we're about to ally with Gurlukovich's forces. 
Ocelot   : Are you going to fight the whole world? 
Liquid   : And what's wrong with that? We can launch a nuclear warhead at any target on this planet... A nuclear warhead invisible to radar. And on top of that, this base is full of spare nuclear warheads. Once we get the DNA and the money, the world will be ours! 
Ocelot   :  What about your promise to Colonel Gurlukovich? 
Liquid   : I have no interest in the revival of Mother Russia. 
Ocelot   : ...You're not thinking of reviving Big Boss's dream? 
 
Snake    : Big Boss's dream... 
Ocelot   : But Boss,... you're not worried about the PAL being overridden? If the code is entered again, it'll be deactivated. 
Liquid   : No need to worry. The DARPA Chief and the ArmsTech president are both dead. 
Ocelot   : Does Snake know how the override system works? 
Liquid   : You interrogated him. Don't you know? 
Ocelot   : He didn't have any keys on him. 
Liquid   : Good. Then no one can stop Metal Gear now. 
Ocelot   : By the way, what should we do with that woman? Want me to kill her? 
Liquid   : Let her live. She's Campbell's niece and Snake cares for her... We'll keep her as our ace in-the-hole. 
Snake    : Meryl... she's alive. 
Otacon   : Snake, I found Baker's top-secret files! 
Snake    : Great job. 
Otacon   : How's it going there? 
Snake    : They've finished inputting the PAL codes. So how do we deactivate them? 
Otacon   : Okay...y'see the override system that the president was talking about... It can also be used to input the detonation codes. Y'see if you insert the keys when the warhead is active, you deactivate it. And if you insert them when it's inactive, it becomes activated. And you can only use the keys once. 
Snake    : Only once, huh. 
Otacon   : Yeah...you'd better get started. We don't have much time. 
Snake    : But it takes three keys, right!? I've only got one of them! 
Otacon   : Hold on a minute. Y'see that's the trick. You already have all three keys! 
Snake    : What are you talking about!? 
Otacon   : The card key is made of a shape memory alloy. 
Snake    : Shape memory alloy? 
Otacon   : Yes. It's a material that changes shape at different temperatures. The key is made out of it! 
Snake    : This card key? 
Otacon   : Yeah. The card key changes shape at different temperatures. 
Snake    : So this key is actually three keys in one...clever. 
Otacon   : Can you see the input terminals in the center of the Control Room... 
Snake    : I see them. 
Otacon   : Those three laptop terminals are for the emergency input. There should be a symbol on each screen... Each symbol corresponds to a different key. Input the keys in order from left to right. The left one's for the room temperature key. See the symbol? Next to that goes the low temperature key. The one on the right is the high temperature key. 
Snake    : Okay, I got it. First I change the shape of the card and then I input them in order, right? 
Otacon   : That's right. All you do is insert the card keys. After you insert the key into the module, a hard disk reads the information contained on it. Once you've finished with all three terminals, the code input process is complete. But here's the thing. You can only use the key three times. It's an emergency system and it's only meant to be used once. 
Campbell : The world is riding on that key, Snake. 
Ocelot   : Who's that!! 
(Ocelot fires a bullet at Snake.  Snake is startled and loses his grip on the key.  It tumbles over the railing and falls into the drainage ditch.) 
Snake    : Damn!! The key fell in the drainage ditch! 
Liquid   : Snake!! This is bullet-proof glass! There's no way in! I'll enjoy watching you die! 
Campbell : Snake, you've got to get that key! 
(Snake finds the key and heads back up to the control room to input the code.) 
Computer : PAL code number one confirmed. Awaiting PAL code number two... 
Snake    : Okay, that takes care of PAL code number one... Now PAL number two... freeze the key. 
Computer : PAL code number two confirmed. Awaiting PAL code number three... 
Master   : Snake. It's about Naomi Hunter... 
Snake    : Then you should talk to the Colonel. He's looking into it. 
Master   : Turn your monitor off. 
Snake    : Okay it's off. No one else can hear us. Go ahead. 
Master   : Sorry, but I didn't want the Colonel to hear. 
Snake    : Okay, so what's up? 
Master   : I've got a good friend in the Pentagon... 
Snake    : Yeah... 
Master   : He's the one who told me about it... It looks like the DIA recently developed a new type of assassination weapon. 
Snake    : An assassination weapon? 
 
Snake    : No... 
Master   : Fox Die? 
Snake    : ...Liquid and others were talking about it... 
Master   : Yeah. It's some kind of virus that targets specific people. I don't know all the details, but... 
Snake    : What are you trying to say? 
Master   : It's too similar. 
Snake    : What is!? 
Master   : The cause of death. Didn't the ArmsTech president and the DARPA Chief, I mean Decoy Octopus,... die of something that looked like a heart attack? 
Snake    : Yeah...? 
Master   : Well, apparently Fox Die kills its victims by simulating a heart attack. 
Snake    : No... You're telling me that Naomi was behind it? 
Master   : Snake, try to remember. Did Naomi give you some kind of injection? 
Snake    : ...The nanomachines. 
Master   : She was in the best position to have done it, but I don't know what her motive was. 
Snake    : ...Does the Colonel know? 
Master   : I'm not sure. But he still hasn't questioned her. 
Snake    : Okay. I'll ask him myself. Colonel, what's new with the Naomi situation? 
Campbell : I just placed Naomi under arrest. 
Snake    : Arrest? 
Campbell : She was sending coded messages towards the Alaskan base. I didn't want to believe it, but she must be working with the terrorists. 
Snake    : Are you sure? 
Campbell : I'm afraid so. She's being interrogated now. 
Snake    : What kind of interrogation? 
Campbell : Well...I'd like to avoid the rough stuff, but we don't even have any sodium pentathol here. 
Snake    : Call me if you find out anything. 
Master   : So it's true, isn't it? 
Snake    : Naomi...I can't believe it. 
Master   : That means the Fox Die vaccine must be around somewhere. 
Snake    : Listen. I've got bigger things to worry about. 
Master   : But Snake...you might be infected too, you know. 
Snake    : All I can do is leave it up to the Colonel. 
(Snake goes to input the rest of the PAL Codes and during the process he gets a Codec call.) 
Naomi    : Snake, can you hear me?  It's Naomi... 
Snake    : Naomi!? ...what the hell!? 
Naomi    : Campbell and the others are busy right now...I'm on a different Codec. 
Snake    : Naomi, is what the Colonel says true? 
Naomi    : ...Yes.  But not everything I said was a lie. I don't know myself. I don't know my real name or even what my parents looked like.  I bought all my identification. But my reason for getting into genetics was true. 
Snake    : Cause you want to know yourself, right? 
Naomi    : That's right. I want to know where I came from...m...my age, my race... anything. 
Snake    : Naomi... 
Naomi    : I was found in Rhodesia sometime in the 80's... a dirty little orphan... 
Snake    : Rhodesia? What's now known as Zimbabwe? 
Naomi    : Yes. Rhodesia was owned by England until 1965 and there were lots of Indian laborers around.  That's probably where I got my skin color from, but I'm not even sure about that... 
Snake    : Naomi, you're too worried about the past. Isn't it enough to understand who you are now? 
Naomi    : Understand who I am now!?  Why should I? No one else tries to understand me.  I was alone for so long... until I met my big brother and him. 
Snake    : Your big brother? 
Naomi    : Yes.... Frank Jaeger. 
Snake    : What!? 
Naomi    : He was a young soldier, when he picked me up near the Zambezi River.  I was half-dead from starvation and he shared his rations with me. 
Naomi    : Yes. Frank Jaeger, the man who you destroyed, was my brother and my only family. 
Snake    : Gray Fox? 
Naomi    : We survived that hell together, Frank and I.  He protected me. He's my one connection... the only connection that I have to my past. 
Snake    : And he brought you back to America? 
 
 
Naomi    : He brought us to this land of freedom , this America. But then he and my brother went back to Africa to continue the war.  And that's when it happened... You killed my benefactor and sent my brother home a cripple.  I vowed revenge and joined FOX-HOUND.  I knew it was my best chance to meet you and I prayed for the day that I ould... 
Snake    : So were your prayers answered? 
Naomi    : Yes. I waited two long years... 
Snake    : To kill me?  Is that all you cared about? 
Naomi    : Yes. That's right.  Two years.  You were all I thought about for two long years...like some kind of twisted obsession... 
Snake    : Do you still hate me? 
Naomi    : ...Not exactly.  I was partly wrong about you... 
Snake    : What about Liquid and the others? 
Naomi    : No. I'll have my revenge on them too. 
Snake    : Naomi...you didn't kill that doctor too, did you?  The one that used Gray Fox for his genome experiments... 
Naomi    : ...No...that was my brother.  Afterwards I covered it up and helped him hide out... 
Snake    : So that Ninja...I mean Gray Fox... he's come here to kill me? 
Naomi    : ...I don't think so.  I think he just came here to fight you... I wasn't sure before, but now I think I understand.  A final battle with you... that's all he lives for. I'm sure of it... 
Snake    : ...Fox...no... Naomi, tell me something... 
Naomi    : ...about FoxDie?  FoxDie is a type of retrovirus that targets and kills only specific people.  First, it infects the macrophages in the victim's body.  FoxDie contains smart enzymes, created through protein engineering.  They're programmed to respond to specific genetic patterns in the cells. 
Snake    : Those enzymes recognize the target's DNA? 
Naomi    : Right. They respond by becoming active, and using the macrophages, they begin creating TNF epsilon.  It's a type of cytokine, a peptide which causes cells to die.  The TNF epsilon is carried along the bloodstream to the heart, where they attach to the TNF receptors in the heart cells. 
Snake    : And then...they cause a heart attack? 
Naomi    : The heart cells suffer a shock and undergo an extreme apoptosis. Then... the victim dies. 
Snake    : Apoptosis...you mean the heart cells commit suicide... Naomi... 
Naomi    : ...What? 
Snake    : ...You must have programmed that thing to kill me too, right? Do I still have time? Naomi, I don't blame you for wanting me dead.  But I can't go yet. I still have a job to do. 
Naomi    : Listen, Snake.  I'm not the one who made the decision to use FoxDie. 
Snake    : You weren't? 
Naomi    : You were injected with FoxDie as a part of this operation. I just wanted to let you know that... No, that's not the whole truth... the real thing that I wanted to tell you was... Snake, I... I... 
Voice    : Hey! What are you doing!? 
Naomi    : Eeeek!!  Ooooh.... Snake..... 
Campbell : ...Snake, I can't allow Naomi to make any more unauthorized transmissions.  Naomi's been removed from this operation. 
Snake    : What happened to Naomi!? What did she mean when she said that FoxDie was a part of this operation!?  Colonel, let me talk to her! 
Campbell : I won't. She's under arrest. 
Snake    : ...you double crossed me! 
Campbell : Snake, there's no time for that! 
Campbell : Right now your job is to stop Metal Gear! ...Okay, Snake!? 
(Snake inputs the second PAL code.) 
Computer : PAL code number two conirmed.  Awaiting PAL code number three. 
Snake    : Okay, there goes PAL code number two. Next comes PAL number three... warm the key. 
(Snake Inputs the third PAL code.) 
Computer : PAL code number three confirmed. PAL code entry complete... Detonation code activated. 
Snake    : No! Why! 
Computer : Ready for launch... 
(Snake recieves a Codec call from Master Miller.) 
Master   : Thank you Snake.  Now the detonation code is completed. Nothing can stop Metal Gear now. 
Snake    : Master, what's going on? 
Master   : You found the key and even activated the warhead for us too. I really must express my gratitude.  Sorry to have involved you in that silly shape memory alloy business.  We weren't able to learn the DARPA Chief's code.  Even with Mantis' psychic powers, he couldn't read his mind.  Then Ocelot accidentally killed him during the interrogation.  In other words, we weren't able to launch the nuclear device and we were all getting a little worried.  Without the threat of a nuclear strike, our demands would never be met. 
Snake    : What do you mean? 
Master   : Without the detonation codes, we had to find some other way. That's when we decided...you might prove useful, Snake.  First I thought we might get the information from you, Snake.  So I had Decoy Octopus disguise himself as the DARPA Chief.  Unfortunately Octopus didn't survive the encounter. ...thanks to FoxDie. 
Snake    : You mean you had this planned from the beginning? Just to get me to input the detonation code!? 
Master   : Huh? You didn't think you made it this far by yourself, did you? 
Snake    : Who the hell are you!? 
Master   : In any case, the launch preparations are complete.  Once the world glimpses the power of this weapon, the White House will have no choice but to surrender the FoxDie vaccine to me. Their ace-in-the- hole is useless now... 
Snake    : Ace-in-the-hole? 
Master   : The Pentagon's plan to use you was already successful... in the torture room. 
Master   : Snake, you're the only one who doesn't know.  Poor fool. 
Snake    : Who are you anyway!? 
Master   : I'll tell you everything you want to know.  If you come to where I am, that is. 
Snake    : Where are you? 
Master   : Very close by. 
Campbell : Snake, that's not Master Miller! 
Master   : Campbell, you're too late. 
Campbell : Master Miller's body was just discovered at his home.  He's been dead for at least three days.  I didn't know because my Codec link with Master was cut off.  But Mei Ling said his transmission signal was coming from inside the base! 
Snake    : So who is it? 
Campbell : Snake, you've been talking to... 
Liquid   : ...Me... dear brother. 
Snake    : Liquid!? How the...!? 
Liquid   : You've served your purpose.  You may die now! 
 
****************************************************************************** 
(Snake dashes outside and sees Liquid about to clmib intot he cockpit of Rex. He levels his SOCOM at him.) 
Snake    : Liquid!! 
Liquid   : Snake, did you like my sunglasses? You'd point a weapon at your own brother? 
Snake    : Why did you disguise yourself as Master? 
Liquid   : So I could manipulate you more easily. And you performed quite well I must say. Although the boys at the Pentagon are probably saying the same thing... 
Snake    : What the hell are you talking about!? 
Liquid   : Following orders blindly with no questions asked. You've lost your warrior's pride and become nothing more than a pawn, Snake. 
Snake    : What? 
Liquid   : Stopping the nuclear launch, rescuing the hostages... It was all just a diversion. 
Snake    : A diversion? 
Liquid   : The Pentagon only needed for you to come into contact with us. That's what killed the ArmsTech president and Decoy Octopus. 
Snake    : You don't mean... 
Liquid   : That's right. You were sent in here to kill us so they could retrieve Metal Gear undamaged along with the bodies of the genome soldiers. From the beginning, the Pentagon was just using you as a vector to spread FoxDie! 
Snake    : Fox Die! ...It can't be! Are you telling me Naomi was working with the Pentagon? 
Liquid   : They thought she was. But it seems that Dr. Naomi Hunter couldn't be controlled so easily. 
Snake    : What? 
Liquid   : We've got a spy working in the Pentagon. He reported that Dr. Hunter altered FoxDie's program just before the operation. But...no one knows how or why. 
Snake    : I wonder... maybe they arrested her so they could find out the answer to that. 
Liquid   : No doubt. But I had no idea she was motivated by such petty revenge... we still don't know what changes she made to FoxDie's program. Oh well. It doesn't matter. I've already added the FoxDie vaccine to my list of White House demands. 
Snake    : There's a vaccine? 
Liquid   : There must be. But that woman is the only one who really knows. Anyway, it might prove to be unnecessary. 
Snake    : Why is that? 
Liquid   : You were successful in coming into contact with all of us, so we must have all been exposed to the virus. It's true that the ArmsTech president and Decoy Octopus were killed by FoxDie... But Ocelot, myself, and you, the carrier, were apparently unaffected. 
Snake    : A bug in the virus' programming? 
Liquid   : Hmm, could be. In any case, if it doesn't kill you then I'm not worried either. After all, our genetic code is identical. 
Snake    : So it's true...you and I are... 
Liquid   : Yes, twins, but we're not ordinary twins... we're twins linked by cursed genes. Les enfants terribles. You're fine. You got all the old man's dominant genes. I got all the flawed, recessive genes. Everything was done so that you would be the greatest of his children. The only reason I exist is so they could create you. 
Snake    : I was the favorite, huh. 
Liquid   : That's right! I'm just the leftovers of what they used to make you. Can you understand what it's like to know that you're garbage since the day you were born!? But...I'm the one father chose. 
Snake    : ...So that's why you're so obsessed with Big Boss. Some warped kind of love. 
Liquid   : Love!? It's hate!! He always told me I was inferior and now I'll have my revenge!! You should understand me, brother. You killed our father with your own hands! You stole my chance for revenge! Now I'll finish the work that father began. I will surpass him... I will destroy him! 
Snake    : You're just like Naomi. 
Liquid   : Well I'm not like you. Unlike you, I'm proud of the destiny that is encoded into my very genes. Yeah! 
(Liqud hops into Rex's ockpit.) 
Snake    : Damn!! 
Liquid   : Snake! Your blood will be the first to be spilt by this glorious new weapon. Consider it an honor... a gift from your brother. Now, I'll show you! The power of the weapon that will lead us in the 21st century! 
Snake    :  It's moving... 
Snake    : How do I stop it? 
Snake    : Did that do it!? Damn!!! 
Liquid   :  Nice try, Snake! Die!! 
(Liquid moves in to crush Snake but Grey Fox leaps out of nowhere and holds up Rex's foot while Snake moves away.) 
Fox      : Hurry! Get away! 
Snake    : Gray Fox!! 
Fox      : A name from long ago. It sounds better than Deepthroat. 
Snake    : So it is you!? 
Fox      : You look terrible, Snake. You haven't aged well. 
Liquid   : I'll send you back to hell! 
(Fox leaps away and fires a few shots into the Radome.  He lands calmly behind the box where Snake is taking cover.) 
Snake    : Fox, why!? What do you want from me!? 
Fox      : I'm a prisoner of Death. Only you can free me... 
Snake    : Fox, stay out of this... What about Naomi? She's hell bent on taking revenge for you. 
Fox      : Naomi... 
Snake    : You're the only one who can stop her. 
Fox      : No...I can't. 
Snake    : Why? 
Fox      : Because I'm the one who killed her parents. I was young then and couldn't bring myself to kill her too. I felt so bad that I decided to take her with me. I raised her like she was my own blood to soothe my guilty conscience. Even now she thinks of me as her brother... 
Snake    : Fox... 
Fox      : From the outside, we might have seemed like a happy brother and sister. But every time I looked at her, I saw her parents' eyes staring back at me... Tell her for me. Tell her that I was the one who did it. 
(Liquid spots the two behind the box and tries to shoot them.) 
Liquid   : There you are! 
Fox      : We're just about out of time. Here's a final present from Deepthroat. I'll stop it from moving! 
Snake    : Fox! 
(Fox dashes out from behind the box and heads straight for Rex.  Liquid spots him and fires the rail gun at him.  Fox leaps up into the air but Liquid reacts quickly to this.  He sweeps the laser up into the air and it connects with Fox's arm.  It is severed but this seems to have no effect on Fox. He quickly moves to a high vantadge point on the wall, readies his gun, and is pinned against the wall by Rex's nose.  Liquid begins to taunt him.) 
Liquid   : In the Middle East, we don't hunt foxes, we hunt jackals. Instead of foxhounds, we use royal harriers. 
Snake    : Fox! 
Liquid   : How strong is that exoskeleton of yours? 
Liquid   : Snake, are you just going to sit by and watch him die? 
(Fox summons his last bit of strength and fires as many shots as he can into the radome of Rex.  It is destroyed.  Liquid is forced to open up the cockpit now.) 
Fox      : A cornered fox is more dangerous than a jackal! 
Snake    : He destroyed the radome... 
 
Fox      : Uuunnggh!! .....Now! Fire the Stinger! 
Snake    : Fox! 
Liquid   : Can you really shoot? You'll kill him too! 
Fox      : Now in front of you. I can finally die. After Zanzibar, I was taken from the battle neither truly alive nor truly dead... an undying shadow in the world of lights. But soon... soon. It will finally... end. 
(Liquid drags Fox off of his perch and lets him fall to the ground.  He tries to crush him once more.) 
Liquid   : Die! 
(Fox is now clinging onto himself.  His exoskeleton will break in a matter of moments.) 
Fox      : Snake, we're not tools of the government or anyone else! Fighting was the only thing... the only thing I was good at, but... At least I always fought for what I believed in... Snake... farewell. 
(Liquid applies all the weaight he van on top of Fox.  His exoskeleton gives out and he is crushed.) 
Snake    : Fooooooox!!! 
Liquid   : Foolish man. He prayed for death... and it found him. You see? You can't protect anyone!! Not even yourself! Die!! 
(Snake battles rex one last time and succedes in firing a missile into Rex's cockpit.) 
Liquid   : Snake, I'll crush you into dust! 
Snake    : Ooooh! Uuuuff! 
(Rex suddenly blows up and Snake is thrown against the wall by the explosion. He is unconscious.  Moments later we see Liquid approaching casually.  The screen goes dark.) 
******************************************************************************  5.10   Confessions of a Dangerous Mind 
****************************************************************************** 
(Snake reawakens on the head of Rex.  Liquid apparently dragged him up there.) 
Liquid   : Sleeping late as usual, ...eh Snake? 
Snake    : Liquid... you're still alive... 
Liquid   : I won't die. ...as long as you still live. 
Snake    : Too bad. It looks like your revolution was a failure. 
Liquid   : Just because you've destroyed Metal Gear doesn't mean I'm done fighting. 
Snake    : Fighting? What are you really after? 
Liquid   : A world here warriors like us are honored as we once were... as we should be. 
Snake    : That was Big Boss's fantasy. 
Liquid   : It was his dying wish! When he was young, during the Cold War, the world needed men like us. We were valued then. We were desired. But things... are different now. With all the liars and hypocrites running the world, war isn't what it used to be... We're losing our place in a world that no longer needs us. A world that now spurns our very existence. You should know that as well as I do. After I launch this weapon and get our billion dollars, we'll be able to bring chaos and honor... back to this world gone soft. Conflict will breed conflict, new hatreds will arise. Then! ...we'll steadily expand our sphere of influence. 
Snake    : But as long as there are people, there will always be war. 
Liquid   : But the problem... is balance. Father knew what type of a balance was best... 
Snake    : Is that the only reason? 
Liquid   : Isn't it reason enough? For warriors such as us. 
Snake    : I don't want that kind of world! 
Liquid   : Ha! You lie! So why are you here then? Why do you continue to follow your orders while your superiors betray you? Why did you come here? 
Snake    : ...... 
Liquid   : Well... I'll tell you then. You enjoy all the killing, that's why. 
Snake    : What! 
Liquid   : Are you dnying it? Haven't you already killed most of my comrades? 
Snake    : That was... 
Liquid   : I watched your face when you did it. It was filled with the joy of battle. 
Snake    : You're wrong! 
Liquid   : There's a killer inside you... You don't have to deny it. We were created to be that way. 
Snake    : Created? 
Liquid   : Les enfants terribles... the terrible children. That's what the project was called. It started in the 1970's. Their plan was to artificially create the most powerful soldier possible. The person that they chose as the model was the man known then as the greatest living soldier in the world... 
Snake    : Big Boss... 
Liquid   : But father was wounded in combat and already in a coma when they brought him in. So they created us from his cells... with a combination of 20th century analog cloning and the Super Baby Method. 
Snake    : Super Baby Method? 
Liquid   : They fertilized an egg with one of father's cells, and then let it divide into eight clone babies. Then they transferred the clones to someone's uterus and later intentionally aborted six of the fetuses to encourage strong fetal growth... You and I were originally octuplets. 
Snake    : Octuplets... 
Liquid   : Yes. The other six of our brothers were sacrificed to make us. We were accomplices in murder before the day we were even born. So it was you and I. Two fertilized eggs with exactly the same DNA. But... they weren't finished yet. They used me as a guinea pig! To create a phenotype in which all of the dominant genes were expressed.... to create you. I got all of the recessive genes! 
Snake    : ....... 
Liquid   : You took everything from me before I was even born! But... you and I aren't his only children. 
Snake    : What? 
Liquid   : The Genome Soldiers. They too are his progeny, carrying on his genetic legacy.  But they're different. They're digital. With the completion of the Human Genome project the mysteries of humanity were laid bare... 
Liquid   : Thanks to father’s DNA, they were able to identify more than sixty ‘soldier genes’ responsible for everything from strategic thinking... to the proverbial ‘killer instinct’. Those ‘soldier genes’ were transplanted, into the membrane of Next Generation Special Forces. That’s how they became the Genome Soldiers. That’s right... The Genome Soldiers that you’ve been killing are our brothers, with the same genes as ours. 
Snake    : The Genome Soldiers!? 
Liquid   : That's right. They are our brothers, created artificially through the alignment of nucleotides  to mimic our father's genes. They too are the product of numerous sacrifices. 
Snake    : Sacrifices? 
Liquid   : Human experiments. 
(Footage of the Gulf War is shown) 
Liquid   : 1991, the Gulf War. The military secretly injected soldiers with the soldier genes. The Gulf War Syndrome that hundreds of thousands of returning soldiers complained about, was a side effect of it. 
Snake    : Hah. Everyone knows that the Gulf War Syndrome was caused by exposure to depleted uranium used in anti-tank rounds. 
Liquid   : That was just a cover story issued by the Pentagon. First they tried to say it was post-dramatic stress disorder, then chemical or biological weapons. The poison gas detection units and the anti-sarin injections. They were all just a cover up of this secret genetic experiment. 
Snake    : So then... the so called Gulf War Babies that have been reported by Gulf War veterans are... 
Liquid   : Yes... They too our are brothers and sisters. 
Snake    : So the Genome Soldiers mean that the experiments were a success? 
Liquid   : Success? Don’t be a fool! They’re a complete failure! We’re on the verge of extinction. 
Snake    : What!? 
Liquid   : Have you ever heard of the Asymmetry Theory? Nature tends to favor asymmetry. Those species which have gone extinct all show signs of symmetry. The Genome Soldiers suffer from the same problem... signs of symmetry. So do I, as do you. 
Snake    :  !!! 
Liquid   : That's right. We are all on the verge of death at the genetic  level. We don't know when or what type of disease will occur. That’s why we need the old man's genetic information. 
Snake    : You want Big Boss's DNA so you can save your family? It's very  touching. 
Liquid   : In Nature, family members don't  mate with each other. And yet they help each other to survive. Do you know why? It increases the chance that their genes will be passed on to a new generation. Altruism among blood relatives is a response to natural selection. It's called the Selfish Gene Theory. 
Snake    : You're telling me that your genes are ordering you to save the Genome Soldiers? 
Liquid   : You can't fight your genes. It's fate. All living things are born for the sole purpose of passing on their parents' genes. That's why I'll follow what my genes tell me. And then I'm going to go beyond. In order to break the curse of my heritage. And to do that... first I will kill you.  Look behind you! 
Snake    : Meryl!? Is she alive? 
Liquid   : I'm not sure. She was alive a few hours ago. Poor girl kept calling your name. 
Snake    : Meryl... 
Liquid   : Stupid woman. Falling in love with a man who doesn't even have a name... 
Snake    : I have a name! 
Liquid   : No! We have no past, no future. And even if we did, it wouldn't be truly ours. You and I are just copies of our father, Big Boss. 
Snake    : Let Meryl go! 
Liquid   : As soon as we finished our business. We're almost out of time. 
Snake    : ...You're talking about FoxDie? 
Liquid   : No. It seems now that the Pentagon knows that Metal Gear is destroyed, they've arrived at a decision. They won't even need a BDA (battle damage assessment). If you want the details why don't you ask your precious Colonel Campbell? 
Snake    : Colonel! Can you hear me? 
Campbell : Yes... I'm listening. 
Snake    : What is the Pentagon trying to do!? Colonel! Colonel! Answer me! 
Campbell : The Secretary of Defense has taken over active control of this operation. He's on his way there by AWACS. 
Snake    : What for? 
Campbell : To bomb the place. 
Snake    : What!? 
Campbell : Not only that. B-2 Bombers just lifted off from Galena Airforce Base. They're carrying B61-13 surface- piercing tactical nuclear bombs. 
Snake    : What?! Metal Gear is destroyed. Tell the Secretary of Defense! 
Campbell : The Secretary of Defense heard that Naomi double-crossed us and he's worried about Fox Die. Now that there's no more danger of a nuclear strike from Metal Gear, he's going to do whatever's necessary to cover up the truth of what really happened here. 
Snake    : He's going to drop a nuclear bomb to vaporize all the evidence along with anyone who knows anything... 
Campbell : Don't worry, Snake. I'll stop the nuclear strike. 
Snake    : How? 
Campbell : I may only be a figurehead here, but I'm still officially in  command of this mission. If I issue an order to delay the strike. It'll confuse the chain of command and at least buy you some time. It'll give you a chance to escape! 
Snake    : But Colonel, if you do that... 
Campbell : It's okay, Snake. ...The truth is FOX-HOUND was already the subject of an undercover investigation. Meryl was transferred to this base just before the terrorist attack... as a way of manipulating me. 
Snake    : Those bastards... 
Campbell : I'm sorry. They forced me to cooperate in exchange for her life. You'd better get out of there, Snake. 
Snake    : Are you sure? ...It'll be bad for you. 
Campbell : Don't worry. It's the least I can do for you after all the lies. 
Snake    : Colonel... 
Campbell : I'm ordering them to cancel the bombing run. After that there's no turning back... Aaaah! What are you doing!? 
Mei Ling : Snake! 
Snake    : Mei Ling, what happened to the Colonel!? 
Mei Ling : ...I don't believe it!! 
Snake    : What happened!? 
Mei Ling : Snake, the Colonel...!! 
Houseman : Roy Campbell has been relieved of duty. This is the Secretary of Defense, Jim Houseman. 
Snake    : Put the Colonel back on! 
Houseman : He's been placed under arrest for leaking top-secret information and for the crime of high treason. 
Snake    : Ridiculous! 
Houseman : Yes, he's a ridiculous man. He truly believed that he was in command of this operation. 
Snake    : You bastard...! 
Houseman : There won't be a speck of evidence left. I'm sure the President would want the same thing. 
Snake    : The President ordered this? 
Houseman : The President is a busy man. I have complete authority here. 
Snake    : How do you plan on explaining a nuclear attack on Alaska to the media? 
Houseman : Don't worry. We've prepared a convincing cover story. We'll simply say that the terrorists exploded a nuclear device. 
Snake    : ...Smart. You'll be murdering everyone here. The scientists, the Genome Army, everyone... 
Houseman : Donald... the DARPA Chief is already dead... 
Snake    : So you didn't mean to kill the DARPA Chief after all? 
Houseman : He was my friend. 
Snake    : And you could care less about what happens to everybody else, huh? 
Houseman : Well, if you give me the optic disc, I might consider saving them. 
Snake    : What are you talking about? 
Houseman : Metal Gear's test data! Donald was supposed to bring it back. 
Snake    : I don't have it. 
Houseman : I see. Oh well that's okay... You two are an embarrassment from the 1970's. ...our country's dirty little secret. You can’t be allowed to live. Well, the bombs will be dropping soon, and you two have a lot of catching up to do. Farewell. 
(Houseman cuts the transmission as Liquid begins to undo Snake's hands.) 
Liquid    : There's no way out for us. Let's finish this before the air strike. You stole everything from me. Only your death can satisfy me. Only your death can return to me what is rightly mine. She'll make a beautiful sacrifice for our final battle.  Do you see this? It will be the time limit for our final battle. This nuclear module is set to detonate at the precise moment of her death.  If you win... you might still be able to save her. You could enjoy one brief moment of love… before the end. If you cross this line, you’ll fall... At this it will kill even you. 
******************************************************************************  5.11   Escape 
****************************************************************************** 
(They fight and Snake defeats Liquid.  Liquid falls off the edge of Rex and plummets to the ground.) 
Liquid   : Snaaaaaaaaake!!! 
(Snake runs over to Meryl lying down.) 
Snake    : Meryl?  ....Meryl?   Meeeeryyyyylll! 
(Meryl's head falls over when Snake lifts her up.  She is dead.) 
Snake    : Forgive me.  Damn!  I gave into my fear.  I gave into my pain.  I sold your life to save my oen...  I'm a loser.  I'm not the hero you thought I was.  I'm nothing!  Meryl, I'm sorry!  Forgive me. 
(Otacon approaches.) 
Otacon   : Meryl can't forgive anyone anymore. 
Snake    : Otacon? 
Otacon   : She's gone, Snake. 
Snake    : ...Because of me.... 
Otacon   : I guess blaming yourself makes it easier, huh?  If you do that, you can keep the pain at a nice, safe distance. 
Snake    : What the hell do you know?  Meryl's dead.  I lost. 
Otacon   : So, are you going to stay here and die?  Along with her?  Snake, people die.... But death is not defeat.  That's what Hemmingway said.  I lost Wolf too.  But that wasn't defeat.  She and I will be together forever.  We didn't lose anything. 
Snake    : Together forever? 
Otacon   : It's true that Wolf is dead.... but our love didn't die with her. Life's more than just a game of win or lose.  Don't you think? Let's live, Snake.  There's a parking garage right next door.  We can get to the surface from there.  C'mon.  I released all the security locks.  It'll be okay.  We can excape.... You have my word on it. 
Snake    : Otacon... you've changed. 
Otacon   : I'm through regreting the past...  Life isn't all about loss y'know. 
(The building begins to shake.) 
Otacon   : It's started!  Those guys.... seems like they only hurry when they're destroying things.  Good.  let 'em destroy it.  But they can't destroy the human spirit. 
Snake    : Okay.  Let's go!  Meryl, I hope you're still watching me.  Maybe I can prove myself to you after all. 
(Snake and Otacon start to leave.) 
Snake    : C'mon, hustle! 
Otacon   : Snake, it's cold outside.  You'll freeze like that. 
(Snake spots his sneaking suit on the ground beneath Rex.) 
Snake    : My sneaking suit! 
Otacon   : You better hurry...  Hurry! 
(Snake puts on his sneaking suit.) 
Otacon   : Now you look like yourself again. 
(As they dash outside, Snake takes one last look at Meryl.) 
(Snake and Otacon escape to the outside but are followed by Liquid.  After a brief gun-fire exchange they emerge into sunlight and both jeeps crash. Snake and Otacon are both pinned under the jeep.) 
Snake    : Otacon, are you okay? 
Otacon   : I guess so.... 
Snake    : Otacon, can you move? 
Otacon   : It's no use. 
Snake    : What happened to Liquid? 
Otacon   : I don't know, but I hope he's dead. 
Snake    : Liquid is dead... Uh oh! 
(There is a noise by the other jeep and Liquid comes out from behind it.) 
Liquid   : Snake! 
(Liquid points his FA-MAS at Snake's head but he doesn't fire.) 
Liquid   : ...Snaaaake... Fo... Fox...? 
(Liquid falls to the ground, dead.) 
Snake    : If he's dead, that means.... 
Otacon   : Don't think about it, Snake. 
Snake    : What happened to the air raid? No stealth bombers in sight. 
(Snake calls Campbell on the Codec.) 
Campbell : Snake, can you hear me? 
Snake    : Colonel! 
Campbell : Are you okay? 
Snake    : Colonel, what happened? 
Campbell : The Secretary of Defense has been arrested. Early retirement. 
Snake    : Arrested? 
Campbell : I was able to get into contact with the President. Metal Gear, the training exercise...all of it...it was all the Secretary of Defense acting alone. 
Snake    : Acting alone? What happened to the air raid and the nuclear strike? 
Campbell : The orders were rescinded. The F117s and the B2 Spirits have returned to the base. Once again, I have complete authority over this operation. 
Snake    : I see... 
Campbell : Washington isn't stupid enough to use nukes to cover up a few secrets. 
Snake    : I wonder about that. 
Campbell : In any case, the danger's over... Thanks, Snake. 
Snake    : Colonel, about Meryl... 
Campbell : I already know. 
Snake    : ..... Colonel 
Campbell : Meryl was my daughter.... 
Snake    : What!? 
Campbell : I didn't find out until recently.  I got a letter from her mother... my dead brother's wife... I was going to tell her after this operation was over. 
Snake    : Colonel, I.... 
Campbell : It's okay, Snake.  Thanks anyway. Snake, I'm sorry I... I kept a lot of things from you. 
Snake    : It's okay, Colonel. 
Campbell : Snake, I'm not a Colonel. 
Snake    : Oh that's right. 
Campbell : I've got a present for you. There's a snowmobile close to you. Mei Ling saw it on the satellite photos. This time of the year the glaciers are pretty calm. You should be able to ride right out of there. I'll bet the boys at the DIA and the NSA never expected you to come home alive. 
Snake    : Me neither. I better not show my face around here. 
Campbell : No danger of that. You two officially died after your jeep sank into the ocean... 
Snake    : That's not too far from the truth. 
Campbell : Also there's a helicopter waiting for you on Fox Island. 
Snake    : Okay, Roy. Are you going to be okay? 
Campbell : Don't worry. I've got an insurance policy... a hard copy of all Mei Ling's data. As long as I've got that, you, me and Mei Ling will be fine. 
Snake    : The battery on these nanomachines will run out soon. They won't be able to follow us. 
Campbell : I guess we won't meet again. 
Snake    : Don't worry. I'll pay you a visit sometime. 
Campbell : Really? I'll look forward to that. 
Snake    : Roy, just tell me one thing. 
Campbell : What? 
Snake    : About Fox Die. 
Campbell : Meryl will be fine. She wasn't included in its programming. 
Snake    : What about me? It killed Liquid... 
Campbell : Naomi said that she wants to talk to you face to face about that. 
Snake    : How is she? 
Campbell : Don't worry. Mei Ling's with her right now. I'm switching over to Naomi. 
Naomi    : Snake, it's me... 
Snake    : Naomi... 
Naomi    : I heard...about my brother... 
Snake    : I'm sorry... but he had one last message he wanted to say to you. He told me to tell you to forget about him and to go on with your own life. 
Naomi    : Frankie said that? 
Snake    : Yeah. He also said he'll always love you... Naomi, your brother just saved you, me and the whole world. He fought with every ounce of strength in his body. 
Naomi    : Maybe... maybe now he's finally found some peace. He wasn't really my brother anymore... Ever since he fought with you in Zanzibar he's been like a ghost. A ghost looking for a place to die... 
Snake    : Naomi, Liquid died from Fox Die too. What about me? When am I gonna go? 
Naomi    : That's up to you. 
Snake    : What do you mean? 
Naomi    : Everybody dies when their time's up... 
Snake    : Yeah, so when's mine up? 
Naomi    : It's up to you how you use the time left to you. Live, Snake. That's all I can say to you. 
Snake    : .......... 
(Snake and Meryl begin to walk down towards the snowmobile.) 
Naomi    : Each person is born with their fate written into their own genetic code... it's unchangeable, immutable... But that's not all there is to life. I finally realized that. I told you before. The reason that I was interested in genes and DNA. Because I wanted to know who I was... where I came from. I thought that if I analyzed my DNA I could find out who I was, who my parents were. And I thought that if I knew that, then I'd know what path I should take in life.  But I was wrong. I didn't find anything. I didn't learn anything. Just like with the Genome Soldiers... you can input all the genetic information, but that doesn't make them into the strongest soldiers. The most we can say about DNA is that it governs a person's potential strengths... potential destiny. You mustn't allow yourself to be chained to fate... to be ruled by your genes. Humans can choose the type of life they want to live.  Snake, whether or not you're in the FoxDie program isn't important. The important thing is that you choose life... And then live! Don't you think, Snake?  Don't worry.  I'm going to choose life too. Until today, I've always looked for a reason to live. But from here on, I'm going to just live.  Genes exist to pass down our hopes and dreams for the future through our children. Living is a link to the future. That's how all life works. Loving each other, teaching each other... that's how we can change the world. I finally realized it. The true meaning of life... Thank you, Snake. 
(Snake finds the snowmobile and pushes it out into the open.) 
Snake    : Until today, I've lived only for myself.  Survival has been the only thing I cared about in my life. 
Otacon   : That's not just you.  That's how everyone is. 
Snake    : I only felt truly alive when I was staring Death in the face.  I don't know, maybe it's written into my genes. 
Otacon   : What about now? 
Snake    : I want to enjoy life.  I really do.  How about you, Otacon? 
Otacon   : Me?  I feel like a new man. 
Snake    : So what are you going to do?  Continue your research? 
Otacon   : No, I'm finished with science...  I'm interested in human psychology            now. 
Snake    : Sounds good... 
Otacon   : The whole reason I got into science in the first place was because I was no good with people.  I was scared of them.  I was scared of life.  I thought that I could never understand them because they're so illogical.  But I've finally learned how to like people.  I'm not afraid anymore. 
Snake    : You and I are more alike than I thought... 
Otacon   : I'm just tired of always being a spectator in life.  I'm ready to live.  I'm gonna stand on my own two feet.  I'm not gonna hide anymore. 
Snake    : You're giving up your stealth camo? 
Otacon   : Huh? Oh yeah... You can have it. 
(Otacon hands his Stealth Camouflage to snake.) 
Otacon   : ...So, this is where we say goodbye to our loves as well... Want me to drive? 
Snake    : No thanks.  I'd rather do it myself. 
Otacon   : No problem. Where to, Snake? 
Snake    : My real name is David, Otacon. 
Otacon   : I'm Hal, Dave. 
Snake    : Oh, that's right... Hal.  Hal and Dave?  That's a good one.  Ha ha ha ha ha... Maybe we should take a trip to Jupiter... 
Otacon   : So where are you going, Dave? 
Snake    : Hmmm. I think it's time for me to look for a new path in life. 
Otacon   : A new path? 
Snake    : A new purpose. 
Otacon   : Will you find it? 
Snake    : I'll find it.  I know I'll find it. 
(Snake starts up the snowmobile and they ride off into the sunset.) 
(The credits are shown.) 
Naomi    : You mustn’t allowed yourself to be chained to fate... to be ruled by our genes. Humans can choose the type of life they want to live. The important thing is that you choose life... And then... live! 
(The screen fades to black.  We can hear Ocelot talking to somebody over a telephone or radio.) 
Ocelot   : Yes sir.  The entire unit was wiped out.  Those two are still alive.  The vector?  Yes sir.  FoxDie should become activated soon... Right on schedule.  Yes sir.  I recovered all of Rex's dummy warhead data.  ...No sir. My cover is intact.  Nobody knows who I really am.  Yes the DARPA Chief knew my identity but he's been disposed of.  Yes.  Thank you.  Good-bye.  Mr. President.  Liquid   : Snaaaaaaaaake!!! 
Snake    : Meryl? Meryl!? 
Meryl    : Uh, Uh, uhnnn... Snake? Is that you? Snake! You're alive! Thank God! 
Snake    : Meryl? Meryl, are you okay? 
Meryl    : Are you okay... Is that all you can say? 
Snake    : Meryl, it must have been terrible... 
Meryl    : It wasn't that bad. I didn't give in to the torture. 
Snake    : Torture? 
Meryl    : ...And things even worse than that... I was fighting too. Just like you. 
Snake    : You're a strong woman. 
Meryl    : Fighting them... made me feel closer to you. I felt like you were there with me. It gave me the strength to go on. But I was scared. 
Snake    : ...I'm sorry. 
Meryl    : Don't say that... But it made me realize something. During all the pain and shame there was one thing I was sure of... a single hope that I held onto... And that hope kept me alive...  Snake, I wanted to see you again... 
(Otacon calls on the Codec.) 
Otacon   : Snake, it's me. 
Snake    : Otacon, good news! Meryl's okay. 
Otacon   : All right!!! You saved her, man. Good job! 
Snake    : I got some bad news too. We're about to be bombed. 
Otacon   : Oh boy. I guess we're considered expendable. 
Snake    : Is there a way out of here? 
Otacon   : A way out? ...Uh, yeah. You can take the loading tunnel to the surface. There's a parking garage right next to you. The tunnel leads from there to the surface. 
Snake    : The door in front? 
Otacon   : No. It's a small entrance to the west of that door. 
Snake    : How about the security? 
Otacon   : I just unlocked it. Who do you think you're talking to? I'll take care of security along your escape route too... 
Snake    : What are you going to do? 
Otacon   : Me? I... I'll stay here. 
Snake    : Are you crazy! 
Otacon   : I need a little more time to take care of your escape route. 
Snake    : But... 
Otacon   : Unlocking the security doors is difficult work. Only I can do it. 
Snake    : Otacon? 
Otacon   : Don't worry. I'm staying here. It's my own decision. 
Snake    : Otacon, this is a hardened shelter, but they're going to use a surface piercing nuclear bomb. It won't hold. 
Otacon   : I'm through regretting the past... Life isn't all about loss, y'know... 
Snake    : ........ 
Otacon   : Snake, I'm a complete person now. I've found a reason to live. 
Snake    : Good. Don't die on me. 
Otacon   : Same to you.  Take care of Meryl, okay. 
Snake    : I will... 
Otacon   : Okay I gotta go. I promise I'll do something about your escape route. 
Snake    : Thanks. 
 
Snake    : ...I believe in you. 
Otacon   : Thanks, Snake. 
Snake    : Let's get the hell out of here. 
Meryl    : ...What about him...? Where is Otacon!? 
Snake    : He's... He's... fighting right now... With his old self... to be the man he wants to be. 
Meryl    : He's fighting for us too? 
Snake    : Yeah, and I don't want it to be in vain. 
Meryl    : ...Me too. 
Snake    : Meryl. 
Meryl    : ...Snake. 
Snake    : Meryl. It's started... 
Meryl    : I must be heavy... 
Snake    : It looks like we're not gonna have a love scene after all. 
Meryl    : Looks that way. Too bad... 
Snake    : Let's get out of here! 
Meryl    : Snake, it's freezing outside. You need some clothes. 
Snake    : There's my Sneaking Suit! 
Meryl    : Hurry up. Hurry! Hmm... Looking good, Snake. 
Snake    : Meryl, are you okay? 
Meryl    : ...Yeah, just a little shook up. 
Snake    : Meryl, can you move? 
Meryl    : It's no good. I can't move. 
Snake    : What happened to Liquid? 
Meryl    : I can't see him either... 
Snake    : Liquid is dead... Uh oh! 
(There is a noise by the other jeep and Liquid comes out from behind it.) 
Liquid   : Snake! 
(Liquid points his FA-MAS at Snake's head but he doesn't fire.) 
Liquid   : ...Snaaaake... Fo... Fox...? 
(Liquid falls to the ground, dead.) 
Snake    : Die... If he's dead, that means... 
Meryl    : Don't say it, Snake. 
Snake    : What happened to the air raid? No Stealth bombers in sight. 
Campbell : Snake, can you hear me? 
Snake    : Colonel! 
Campbell : Are you okay? 
Snake    : Colonel, what happened? 
Campbell : The Secretary of Defense has been arrested. Early retirement. 
Snake    : Arrested? 
Campbell : I was able to get into contact with the President. Metal Gear, the training exercise...all of it...it was all the Secretary of Defense acting alone. 
Snake    : Acting alone? What happened to the air raid and the nuclear strike? 
Campbell : The orders were rescinded. The F117s and the B2 Spirits have returned to the base. Once again, I have complete authority over this operation. 
Snake    : I see... 
Campbell : Washington isn't stupid enough to use nukes to cover up a few secrets. 
Snake    : I wonder about that. 
Campbell : In any case, the danger's over... Thanks, Snake. 
Snake    : Colonel, you can rest easy. Meryl's fine. 
Campbell : Really? Thanks... Thank you, Snake.  Snake, I'm sorry I... I kept a lot of things from you. 
Snake    : It's okay, Colonel. 
Campbell : Snake, I'm not a Colonel. 
Snake    : Oh that's right. 
Campbell : I've got a present for you. There's a snowmobile close to you. Mei Ling saw it on the satellite photos. This time of the year the glaciers are pretty calm. You should be able to ride right out of there. I'll bet the boys at the DIA and the NSA never expected you to come home alive. 
Snake    : Me neither. I better not show my face around here. 
Campbell : No danger of that. You two officially died after your jeep sank into the ocean... 
Snake    : That's not too far from the truth. 
Campbell : Also there's a helicopter waiting for you on Fox Island. 
Snake    : Dr. Hal Emmerich should be somewhere on the base. I want someone to bring him in. 
Campbell : I understand. Leave it to me. 
Snake    : Okay, Roy. Are you going to be okay? 
Campbell : Don't worry. I've got an insurance policy... a hard copy of all Mei Ling's data. As long as I've got that, you, me and Mei Ling will be fine. 
Snake    : The battery on these nanomachines will run out soon. They won't be able to follow us. 
Campbell : I guess we won't meet again. 
Snake    : Don't worry. I'll pay you a visit sometime. 
Campbell : Really? I'll look forward to that. 
Snake    : Roy, just tell me one thing. 
Campbell : What? 
Snake    : About Fox Die. 
Campbell : Meryl will be fine. She wasn't included in its programming. 
Snake    : What about me? It killed Liquid... 
Campbell : Naomi said that she wants to talk to you face to face about that. 
Snake    : How is she? 
Campbell : Don't worry. Mei Ling's with her right now. I'm switching over to  Naomi. 
Naomi    : Snake, it's me... 
Snake    : Naomi... 
Naomi    : I heard...about my brother... 
Snake    : I'm sorry... but he had one last message he wanted to say to you. He told me to tell you to forget about him and to go on with your own life. 
Naomi    : Frankie said that? 
Snake    : Yeah. He also said he'll always love you... Naomi, your brother just saved you, me and the whole world. He fought with every ounce of strength in his body. 
Naomi    : Maybe... maybe now he's finally found some peace. He wasn't really my brother anymore... Ever since he fought with you in Zanzibar he's been like a ghost. A ghost looking for a place to die... 
Snake    : Naomi, Liquid died from Fox Die too. What about me? When am I gonna go? 
Naomi    : That's up to you. 
Snake    : What do you mean? 
Naomi    : Everybody dies when their time's up... 
Snake    : Yeah, so when's mine up? 
Naomi    : It's up to you how you use the time left to you. Live, Snake.  That's all I can say to you. 
Snake    : .......... 
(Snake and Meryl begin to walk down towards the snowmobile.) 
Naomi    : Each person is born with their fate written into their own genetic code... it's unchangeable, immutable... But that's not all there is to life. I finally realized that. I told you before. The reason that I was interested in genes and DNA. Because I wanted to know who I was... where I came from. I thought that if I analyzed my DNA I could find out who I was, who my parents were. And I thought that if I knew that, then I'd know what path I should take in life.  But I was wrong. I didn't find anything. I didn't learn anything. Just like with the Genome Soldiers... you can input all the genetic information, but that doesn't make them into the strongest soldiers. The most we can say about DNA is that it governs a person's potential strengths... potential destiny. You mustn't allow yourself to be chained to fate... to be ruled by your genes. Humans can choose the type of life they want to live.  Snake, whether or not you're in the FoxDie program isn't important. The important thing is that you choose life... And then live! Don't you think, Snake?  Don't worry.  I'm going to choose life too. Until today, I've always looked for a reason to live. But from here on, I'm going to just live.  Genes exist to pass down our hopes and dreams for the future through our children. Living is a link to the future. That's how all life works. Loving each other, teaching each other... that's how we can change the world. I finally realized it. The true meaning of life... Thank you, Snake. 
(Snake finds the snowmobile and pushes it out into the open.  When they get on it Meryl hands Snake a bandana.) 
Meryl    : Look. I found this. 
Snake    : Let's keep it. As a reminder. 
Meryl    : Of what? A reminder of a successful mission or the first time we met? 
Snake    : A reminder of how to live. Until today, I've lived only for myself. Survival has been the only thing I cared about in my life. 
Meryl    : That's not just you. That's how everyone is. 
Snake    : I only felt truly alive when I was staring Death in the face. I don't know, maybe it's written into my genes. 
Meryl    : What about now? What do your genes say about your future now? 
Snake    : Maybe it's time I live for someone else. 
Meryl    : Someone else? 
Snake    : Yeah. Someone like you... Maybe that's the real way to live. 
Meryl    : So...where to, Snake? 
Snake    : David. My name is David... 
Meryl    : Okay, so where to, Dave? 
Snake    : Hmmm. I think it's time we look for a new path in life. 
Meryl    : A new path? 
Snake    : A new purpose. 
Meryl    : Will we find it? 
Snake    : We'll find it. I know we'll find it. 
(Meryl spots an animal out on the ice.) 
Meryl    : What are those? 
Snake    : Caribou. To the Aleutians, the Caribou is a symbol of life. It'll be spring here soon... 
Meryl    : For us too... 
Snake    : Yeah. Spring brings new life to everything. It's a time for hope. I've lived here a long time... But Alaska has never looked more beautiful. The sky... the sea... the caribou... and most of all... You... 
Meryl    : I think I'm gonna like this new life... 
Snake    : C'mon. Let's enjoy life... 
(Snake and Meryl ride off into the sunset.) 
(The credits are shown.) 
Naomi    : You mustn’t allowed yourself to be chained to fate... to be ruled by our genes. Humans can choose the type of life they want to live. The important thing is that you choose life... And then... live! 
(The screen fades to black.  We can hear Ocelot talking to somebody over a telephone or radio.) 
Ocelot   : Yes sir. The entire unit was wiped out. Those two are still alive. The vector? Yes sir, FoxDie should become activated soon... Right on schedule.  Yes, sir. I recovered all of Rex's dummy warhead data. ...No, sir. My cover is intact. Nobody knows who I really am. Yes, the DARPA Chief knew my identity, but he's been disposed of.  Yes. The inferior one was the winner after all. ...That's right. Until the very end, Liquid thought he was the inferior one. Yes, sir. I agree completely. It takes a well-balanced individual... such as yourself to rule the world. No, sir.  No one knows that you were the third one... Solidus. ...What should I do about the woman? Yes sir. I'll keep her under surveillance.  Yes. Thank you. Good-bye. Mr. President. 
Ocelot     : Our boy is right on schedule. He'll know soon enough... 
[Snake slowly straightens himself upright and the title appears onscreen.]  METAL GEAR SOLID 2: SONS OF LIBERTY 
[Snake hears something and rushes to cover.  He kneels down, places his hand by his ear and calls someone on his Codec.  It is Hal Emmerich (Otacon), whom we know from the Shadow Moses Incident two years ago.] 
Snake      : This is Snake. Do you read me, Otacon? 
Otacon     : Loud and clear, Snake. 
 
Otacon     : Everything's going okay? 
Snake      : The stealth camo's busted. Landing impact. 
Otacon     : We must have overused it. Sorry, but you're going to have to deal with it.  You're not in the military anymore. 
Snake      : Right. I didn't plan on relying on this gadget anyway. 
Otacon     : The private sector's not so bad, is it? Privacy guaranteed... 
Snake      : I'm happy as long as no one gives me any more unwanted gifts. 
Otacon     : You mean that thing with Naomi? 
Snake      : And I can't say I miss the chattering nanny. 
Otacon     : Mei Ling's not so bad. That reminds me, I have to get in touch with her again about that new Natik flashware. 
Snake      : Diverting toys from the SSCEN (U.S. Army Soldier Systers Center) again? Give her a message from me: someone will find out sooner or later. She's better off assuming it's sooner and quit while she's safe. 
Otacon     : Too true. Okay, Snake, let's get to work. You know the technical specs of Metal Gear were sold on the black market after Shadow Moses? 
Snake      : All Ocelot's doing... 
Otacon     : Exactly. And now every state, group, and dotcom has its own version of Metal Gear. 
Snake      : Not exactly a classified weapon for today's nuclear powers. 
Otacon     : This new one seems to have been designed to wipe the floor with all the other models. The only consistent description is that it's an amphibious, anti-Metal Gear vehicle... 
Snake      : That explains why this one is under Marine Corps jurisdiction. 
[The outside decks of the tanker are shown.] 
Otacon     : The mission objective is to make visual confirmation of the new Metal Gear being transported by that tanker, and bring back photographic evidence. But I want you to first go up to the top level of the infrastructure, to the bridge. We need to find out where the tanker is headed. 
Snake      : A little reconnaissance, huh? 
Otacon     : There's too much we don't know about this new prototype. Capabilities, deployment method -- we don't even know how close it is to completion. If we know where the testing arena is, I can start to draw some reasonable conclusions. 
Snake      : All right. I'll head to the bridge ASAP. 
Otacon     : Try to avoid confrontations. Our goal is to collect evidence on  Metal Gear development and expose it to the world. It would be best if you could get out of there without alerting anyone. 
Snake      : Don't worry. I know the drill -- we're not terrorists. 
 
Snake      : Recognized, but still fringe, Otacon. 
[Snake sorts through his gear.] 
Otacon     : All right, let's look at your gear. Your weapon is a tranquilizer gun converted from a Beretta M92F. 
Snake      : M9. 
Otacon     : It's a little hard to work with because you have to reload after each shot since the slide locks. 
Snake      : It's better than scavenging on mission site. Good suppressor too. 
Otacon     : The chemical stun will take affect in a few seconds and last for hours. You can take down a elephant with that thing. Check out the laser sighting too. 
[Snake takes a practice shot and breaks a light nearby.] 
Otacon     : The affects of the anesthetic rounds will vary depending on what target the body hits. Were talking about a difference of tens of seconds between hitting the enemy's chest or head. 
[Snake pauses and looks at his cigarettes.] 
Otacon     : As for the equipment... Hey Snake, cigarettes? What's wrong with you? 
Snake      : It's kind of a lucky charm. 
Otacon     : You haven't read the surgeon general's warning, have you? 
[Snake looks at his digital camera.] 
Otacon     : He's the digital camera. Works almost the same as your old one. 
[Snake uses the zoom on the camera to scan the deck.  He spots a Marine soldier patrolling.] 
Snake      : They don't look armed... 
Otacon     : Hey, Earth to Snake. These are nice, upstanding Marines, not terrorists. Don't get caught; you're in stealth mode here. 
Snake      : Sure, if it comes to that, a little beauty sleep never hurt anyone. By the way, Otacon, are you sure of this intelligence? 
Otacon     : Absolutely. Hacked it out of Pentagon's classified files myself. 
Snake      : No traces? 
Otacon     : Oh please. I'm too good for that. 
Snake      : We can't rule out the possibility that this is a trap. There's a high price on our heads, you know. 
Otacon     : You're just paranoid. 
Snake      : I hope so. 
[Snake spots another soldier.] 
Snake      : They don't seem anything but civilians from here. 
Otacon     : With all the ships passing on the river and in the harbor. Putting uniformed Marines on the deck would be a bad idea. People can get a clear view of the water from riverside too. 
Snake      : The waterline is too high...According to the navigational plans, this ship should have discharged its cargo upriver. 
Otacon     : It's in there, no doubt about it. 
Snake      : A Metal Gear in the holds will weigh down a ship a bit, I'd say. The military trains you to watch for threats from the stern on a boat. That's SOP for Counter-terror ops too. Security should be tighter. 
Otacon     : You worry too much. 
Snake      : Where's the target? 
Otacon     : Satellite surveillance is a major international pastime these days. I'd say the cargo holds, safely below the deck. Do you see the entrance to the holds? 
Snake      : Looks like there are a few entry ways into the crew quarters. 
[Snake hears a helicopter flying nearby.] 
Snake      : A chopper. Wha--! 
[Snake pans to one of the soldiers on the deck and promptly the Marine gets his throat slit by a soldier in military fatigues.  Another soldier gets knocked to the ground and his fall is promptly followed by a knife plunging through his neck.  A third Marine gets stabbed several times by a soldier that has just snuck up on him.] 
Snake      : Looks like were not the only ones after Metal Gear tonight. 
Otacon     : Is that a chopper I just heard? 
Snake      : Affirmative. Probably another cavalry... 
[Some soldiers move in to secure the area.] 
Snake      : What's their game? Hijack? 
Otacon     : They're probably targeting the ship's controls. 
Snake      : Otacon, how many men do you need to take over a tanker of this size? 
Otacon     : The ship is run by a computer so... I'd say about 18 people. 
Snake takes a look at one of the soldier's weapons. 
Snake      : AKS-74u? 
[Snake spots a soldier that appears to be ordering the others around.  The man turns around.  He has a brown moustache and short brown hair.  He appears to be in his mid 50's or so.] 
Snake      : Russians? 
Otacon     : You sure? 
Snake      : No Marine barber touched that head of hair. 
[The man puts on a hat and Snake snaps a picture of him.] 
Snake      : I'm transmitting the photo. Let's try to get a ID on him ASAP. 
Otacon     : I'm on it. 
Snake      : Looks like the tanker's theirs now. 
[Snake hears a helicopter again.  This time he is able to identify it.] 
Snake      : KA-60. Kasatka? 
Otacon     : Kasatka? Kamov chopper, right?  'Killer Whale'... 
[Codec screen.] 
Snake      : We need to get a fix on who they are. 
Otacon     : Judging by their transport, aren't they some kind of military commandos? 
Snake      : Not necessarily. It could be the KA-62, the civil model. 
Otacon     : Look, Snake, all we need is the photographic evidence of Metal Gear. As long as we have those, we can put it online and blow the whole thing wide open. So no pyrotechnics, okay? 
Snake      : All right. I'll do my best. 
Otacon     : This isn't like Shadow Moses. Reach me if anything happens. The frequency is 141.12. 
Snake      : How can I check in and save my progress? 
Otacon     : I'll do it. There's a frequency set aside for it -- 140.96. Sorry but no Mei Ling this time. Call me on the Codec when you want to save. 
Snake      : Got it. 
Otacon     : I'll be waiting just past the Verrazano Bridge. You need to be off that ship by then. 
Snake      : I'll be in touch. 
[Snake signs off.] 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 02)  Hairy armpits and bad Russian accents
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Snake reaches the bridge of the tanker.  He enters slowly, with his gun drawn and slowly moves through.  There are two crewmen lying over some instruments wearing orange jumpsuits, they are both dead.  Snake reaches the front window of the bridge and sees two identical helicopters flying past in the rain.] 
Snake      : So it is the Kasatka... Russian choppers... 
[The two helicopters descend above the deck and soldiers repel and quickly secure the area.] 
[Snake reaches a computer terminal and punches some buttons.  After looking for a moment he calls up Otacon.] 
Otacon     : Snake, did you find out where that ship is headed? 
Snake      : I'm looking at it -- 35 degrees longitude, latitude around 58. 
Otacon     : More than 500 miles off the coast of the Bermudas, out in the middle of the Atlantic... So the prototype is ready for solo testing -- it's basically combat-worthy. That area is outside the Second Fleet's operational range, too. It must be a stand-alone Marine Corps project -- which means this prototype Metal Gear must be designed for independent deployment, without any Naval assistance... Anyway, analysis can wait till later. Snake, you need to go down to the holds and locate the actual Metal... 
[There is a loud bang from outside.  A crate falling, perhaps?] 
Snake      : !? 
[Snake sees a woman strolling through the rain with her back turned.  She is holding a radio.] 
Snake      : Hm? 
[Snake sneaks outside and gets close enough to hear the woman talking to someone over the radio.  A man is speaking] 
Radio      : ...Shalashaska has landed. I'm on my way to the tanker holds... Report your status. 
Woman      : Control room, communications and engine room are under control. All entry and exit points to the tanker holds secured. Infrared sensors placed and operational. 
Radio      : Good work. Are the explosives in place? 
Woman      : Yes, they're all planted. 
Radio      : Listen. Once we have what we came for, the tanker will be scuttled. 
Woman      : And the vehicle's pilot? 
Radio      : He's the only one who underwent the VR training. No one else can do it. 
Woman      : Are you sure you can trust him? 
Radio      : Your part in the mission is complete. You are to leave at once. 
Woman      : No, it's not over yet! 
[The man talking over the radio is shown.  He is the Russian commander Snake snapped a picture of.] 
Radio      : I can see the moon...even in this storm. Pale as death. I have a bad feeling about this mission... You swore this to me that you would leave the unit, once the mission was complete. Do not worry. This is a country of liberty. 
Woman      : This is where I belong, with the unit. 
[The woman takes out her gun and looks at it.] 
Woman      : I have nowhere else to go. Father, I want to stay and fight. 
Radio      : There is no choice to make here, Olga! Need I remind you that you are carrying my grandchild? 
[Olga pats her stomach gingerly.] 
Olga       : ...... 
Radio      : You will be on the helicopter out of here, now! 
[The transmission is cut abruptly.] 
Olga       : Damn it! 
[Olga waves away a helicopter.  As it flies away Snake leaps out from behind a crate and trains his gun on Olga.] 
Snake      : Freeze! 
[Olga turns around slowly to see Snake.] 
Snake      : Hands over your head! Now! 
[Olga slowly raises her arms.] 
Snake      : Toss your gun overboard! Slowly. 
[She casually tosses her gun overboard.] 
Snake      : A woman...?  Show your face. 
Olga       : You men -- you're all the same. 
Snake      : Who are you? 
[She slowly takes off her cap and lets the wind carry it to Snake.] 
Olga       : We are nomads. Wanderers. 
[Olga moves to her side.] 
Snake      : I said, don't move! 
Olga       : Americans...so you shoot unarmed women too? 
Snake      : I'm a nomad too. 
[Snake sees her knife.] 
Snake      : What else do you have there? Take the knife and toss it. 
[Olga takes the knife and tries to place it on the ground at her feet.] 
Snake      : Not there. Toss it overboard! Hold that position. Now, turn around. 
[She raises her hands over her head, knife in hand.] 
Olga       : You know what you're doing. 
[The tanker jerks violently, both of them lose their balance for a moment. The rain stops.] 
Olga       : It's stopped raining... Not too shabby, is it? New York, I mean? 
[Olga twirls around and a bullet flies from the knife.  Snake is startled but manages to (barely) dodge the shot.  As Olga takes cover behind a crate Snake snaps back into position with his gun trained on the storage rack where Olga is hiding.] 
Olga       : And that brings our tour to its conclusion! 
Snake      : Scout knife with a surprise -- you a Spetsnaz? 
Olga       : I think you deserve a little credit. No one's ever dodged that shot of mine... But no one gets lucky twice, either! 
[Snake and Olga battle.  During the battle Olga speaks to Snake.] 
Olga       : I've been on the unit since I was born. I grew up on the battlefield. Conflict and victory were my parents. The unit is my life, my family. We've shared everything -- all the bad and all the good. I have no one -- nothing except the unit. Nothing else matters to me! Whoever you are, your not stopping us! 
[Snake defeats her with his tranquilizer gun.  She falls unconscious to the deck.  Snake slowly approaches her.  He kicks her a little bit and she falls limp.  Seemingly relieved he holsters his gun and takes hers, a USP.  There is no ammo in it.] 
Snake      : Hmm... 
[A small surveillance remote appears.  It hovers for a moment making some clicking noises and then flies off into the distance.] 
Snake      : CYPHER!? 
[Snake calls Otacon.] 
Snake      : Otacon, the ship appears to be under their control. The men have Russian gear, but I haven't been able to find out anything else about their origin. 
Otacon     : I know who they are. 
Snake      : You do? 
Otacon     : We've ID'd the old man. 
Snake      : Who is he? 
Otacon     : Sergei Gurlukovich. 
Snake      : Gurlukovich.! One of Ocelot's allies? 
Otacon     : Yeah...the GRU colonel. He's the one Ocelot was supposed to meet up with, after Shadow Moses... 
Snake      : They're after Metal Gear... 
Otacon     : Everything's changed. This is not going to be as simple as we thought. 
Snake      : You could say that. I saw a surveillance remote just now, it looked like the Cypher. 
Otacon     : A Marine Cypher-T? 
Snake      : No, Army. 
Otacon     : First the Marines, then the Russians -- now the Army...? 
Snake      : You're right, this isn't going to be simple. 
Otacon     : Snake -- There's something I have to tell you. 
Snake      : What? 
Otacon     : We didn't dig up this info -- about the new Metal Gear -- on our own. Not like usual... 
Snake      : How did you find out, then? 
Otacon     : It was a tip. An anonymous tip. 
Snake      : Anonymous? You've never trusted those -- why would you start now? 
Otacon     : I, ah. I have a younger sister. A stepsister. We have different parents. I only knew her for two years. 
Snake      : You've never mentioned her before. So...? 
 
 
 
Snake      : Emma Emmerich? 
Otacon     : Yeah. It just caught my eye, you know? I figured it was a coincidence, but I couldn't get it out of my mind. There's really no one there who knows about her. 
Snake      : When was the last time you saw her? 
Otacon     : Over 10 years ago. 
Snake      : You think it's a trap? To lure us out here...? 
Otacon     : I don't know. After I got the tip, I did break into the Pentagon system to get confirmation. 
Snake      : Okay... 
Otacon     : Watch your back, Snake. Maybe I screwed up... 
Snake      : I've got a light-equipped USP; I can take them on now. There's no ammo, but it takes a 9mm, just like the Marines' M9. I'll find those somewhere around here. 
Otacon     : Don't raise too much racket with that thing. 
Snake      : I hear you. 
[Snake signs off. Snake reaches a junction in the ship that he must get past. It is blocked by plastic explosives and trip lasers. Snake calls Otacon for assistance.] 
Otacon     : Snake, there's another set of infrared sensors in place. If you touch that, the explosives will detonate and that ship will be pulverized. 
Snake      : I'm not in the mood to go sleep with the fishes. There are too many sensors. Looks like I'll have to find another way. 
Otacon     : No need to worry. There's a way through. Take a close look -- do you see the thing with blinking green lights right next to the explosives? That's the control unit for the sensors. Destroy that and the sensors stop functioning. You can't get in close enough to touch it, so you'll have to shoot it out. But the M9's knockout rounds won't work. The USP you picked up should do the trick. Use that gun. 
[Snake makes it past the SEMTEX by shooting the control units.  When he enters the next hatch he hears an announcement.] 
Announcer  : Verrazano Bridge checkpoint passed. All non-essential personnel, report to the holds in 10 minutes time for the scheduled briefing session with the Commandant. You are ordered to continue manning your posts until that time. 
[Snake travels through the corridor but up ahead he hears the sound of a squeaky hatch opening.  He quickly draws his gun and crouches down.  At the hatch three soldiers emerge and secure the annex room where it is located. They seal the hatch again.  One of the soldiers calls up the commander over the radio.] 
Soldier    : Colonel, we have sealed the stern hatch. 
Sergei     : All right. 
Soldier    : The lift is also under our control. 
Sergei     : We're on the foredeck. About to descend to the holds. 
Soldier    : Sir, the Marine commander has started his speech already. 
Sergei     : We will complete the preparations before the end of the speech. 
Soldier    : All communications to the holds have been severed. No one is aware of our presence. 
Sergei     : Let no one down into the holds until we are out. 
Soldier    : Yes sir! We will secure your exit, with our lives if necessary. 
Sergei     : There is one more thing... 
Soldier    : Yes sir? 
Sergei     : My daughter...keep her safe. 
Soldier    : Yes sir! 
[The transmission ends.  The three soldiers begin to patrol through the corridor.  Snake leans up against the crate he is next to.] 
Soldier    : Who goes there? 
[Snake fights off a dozen soldiers in the corridor and then proceeds to the hatch the soldiers came out of.  He opens it.  A soldier that somehow avoided the carnage sneaks behind him and watches.  Snake goes through the hatch. The soldier quietly closes the hatch with a sigh.  He hears somebody approaching from the rear.] 
Soldier    : Who goes there! 
[The man who was watching Snake when he landed on the tanker appears out of the darkness.] 
Soldier    : Oh, Shalashaska. 
[The soldier lowers his gun.] 
Soldier    : Why are you here? We thought you were with the Colonel. 
[Suddenly the man draws his revolver and aims point-blank at the soldier's forehead.] 
Soldier    : What the...! 
[The revolver fires.  The soldier falls to the ground.  Shalashaska moves to the hatch and seals it.  He begins to walk away.] 
Ocelot     : The colonel will be joining you soon... Comrade... 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 03)  Possessed arms and weird twists
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Snake reaches the holds of the tanker.  He sees a group of Marines standing below watching a projection movie of a speech by the Marine commander.] 
Otacon     : Snake, are you in yet? Have you made it to the holds? 
Snake      : It's taking longer than I expected. We've already passed the Verrazano Bridge. 
Otacon     : All right. We'll use another recovery point. 
Snake      : They may be planning to change course. 
Otacon     : What? 
Snake      : The exits to the deck are all sealed. 
Otacon     : What are they planning? 
Snake      : If they get Metal Gear, we're going right off the fringe. 
[Snake peers down at the Marines.] 
Snake      : The men down here are definitely Marines. 
Otacon     : If the deck is sealed off, they have no way of knowing that the ship's been taken over. 
Snake      : I'm not interested in fighting these guys. The weapons won't do me much good here. 
Otacon     : Can you see Metal Gear? 
Snake      : No. I'll have to go around to the bow. They have some serious defenses here. I doubt the recent arrivals want to blast their way through the Marines either. 
Otacon     : Wonder where they're headed. 
Snake      : I don't know... Not the beach, that's for sure. 
Otacon     : OK, Snake. Let's go over this one more time. Use this camera to get photographic evidence of the Metal Gear prototype. Now, do your thing and take pictures that speak louder than the government's plausible denials. We need four shots: Metal Gear from the front, front-right, and front-left, and a close-up of the Marine Corps marking. 
Snake      : Marking? 
 
Snake      : All right. 
Otacon     : There's actually one little thing... 
Snake      : Just spit it out. I'm used to things going wrong. 
Otacon     : It looks like someone's monitoring our transmission. 
Snake      : Who? 
Otacon     : I don't have a clue. All they're doing is watching -- it would creep me out less if they tried to interfere with our communications. 
Snake      : Could it have something to do with that Cypher we saw? 
Otacon     : Maybe. I've switched the encryption protocol for our burst transmission for now. What I want to do is use a different method for sending those photos, just in case. 
Snake      : Instead of using the Codec? 
Otacon     : Exactly. There's a workstation in the southeast corner of the block where Metal Gear is housed. I've made arrangements so that you can send the pictures from the machine. 
 
Otacon     : I hitched a ride on Link 16 into U.S. military's proprietary network. Managed to get into that workstation and overwrote a part of the system software so I could remote-install a little app I wrote... 
Snake      : Why bother with anything that complicated... 
Otacon     : No, it's pretty simple, really. Look, all you have to do is stand in front of the machine and push the Action button. The app will automatically launch and download the image data from the camera, split the files and encrypt them individually. The data packets can then masquerade as... 
Snake      : OK, OK. So all I have to do is push the Action button in front of the computer once I have the pictures, right? 
Otacon     : Well, sure, if you put it that way. And one more thing... The Commandant's already begun his speech, but you need to get the pictures before he's done talking. Otherwise, they'll spot you. OK? 
Snake      : How much time do I have? 
Otacon     : I hacked into his personal files and took a look at the text of that speech. I'd say you have seven more minutes -- longer if he throws in a joke or two. 
Snake      : A seven-minute time limit, huh? 
Otacon     : Remember, Snake, just the photos, OK? 
Snake      : With these kinds of odds, I won't be making any sudden moves. But that doesn't mean we can just let Metal Gear be hijacked. 
Otacon     : Okay, okay, but first, the photos... 
Snake      : All right. We'll deal with the rest when we get there. 
Otacon     : Stay low. 
[Snake signs off.] 
[Snake makes it to the third hold of the tanker and finds a group of two dozen Marines watching the Marine Commander give his speech.  The group is flanked by two cameramen who are taping the speech.  Behind the Marine Commander is Metal Gear RAY, the new Metal Gear prototype.] 
Snake      : Metal Gear!? 
[Snake gets a call from Otacon.] 
Otacon     : Ok, we're finally there. 
Snake      : So this is the new Metal Gear... 
 
[Snake snaps all the pictures, going unnoticed by everybody in the room.  He uploads the pictures to Otacon just as the commander finishes his speech.] 
Dolph      : We the Marines will lead the charge into a new world order with Metal Gear RAY.  That is all. Dismissed! 
[The Marines stand at attention and salute the commander.  As they are saluting, (sarcastic) clapping can be heard from the rear of the hold.  The Marines and the commander look around, puzzled.  A man emerges from behind Metal Gear, clapping his hands as he struts along.] 
Ocelot     : Excellent speech, my friend... 
Dolph      : Who the -- !? 
[The commandant turns to face the intruder.] 
Ocelot    : Gift of the silver tongue -- they say it's a mark of a good officer -- and of a liar. Americans are too in love with the sound of their own voice to speak the truth. 
Dolph      : Identify yourself! 
Several Marines rush to Dolph's side and train their sights on the intruder. 
Ocelot     : I am Shalashaska! Also called Revolver -- 
[Snake recognizes the man as he steps forward.  They both utter the same word.] 
Both       : Ocelot. 
[Flashbacks to Shadow Moses.  The Marines try to advance forward but they are held back by the commander.] 
Dolph      : What do you want? 
Ocelot     : This machine will be quite useful. 
Dolph      : What are you planning to do -- steal this thing? 
Ocelot     : Steal? No, no, I'm taking it back. 
[Snake moves to a different location.  He can see an arm reaching out for the commandant.  The arm grabs the commandant.  It is Colonel Sergei Gurlukovich holding a gun to the commandant's head.] 
Snake      : Gurlukovich... 
[Gurlukovich takes a few protective steps backwards with his hostage.] 
Ocelot     : Nobody move! Understood? 
[Ocelot steps onto the platform.  In the other holds the Marines are beginning to panic.  Ocelot raises a device above his head.] 
Ocelot     : This ship now carries enough SEMTEX on its key structural points to blow it out of the water -- at the touch of this button. 
[Some of the Marines stand a little uneasy now.] 
Ocelot     : That's right...no one has to die needlessly. 
[Russian soldiers rappel from the ceiling and take up positions covering their commanders from the Marines.] 
Ocelot     : We're almost at the target. Get a move on! 
[A group of soldiers begins to undo the lines holding down Meta Gear Ray.] 
Dolph      : What do you intend to do with RAY -- sell it on the streets? 
Sergei     : I was raised in Snezhinsk, formerly known as Chelyabinsk-70, the nuclear research outpost. 
Dolph      : What are you talking about? 
Sergei     : After the Cold War ended, my home was bought out by the Americans. 
Dolph      : Is there a point to this sad story? 
[Gurlukovich become angry and presses the pistol against the commandant's head spinning it a little.] 
Sergei     : Not that you would understand. Land, friends, dignity...all sold to the highest bidder -- the United States of America. Even the technology that gave birth to these weapons is Russian, developed by us! 
Dolph      : What do you intend to do? 
Sergei     : Russia will rise again -- and RAY is the key. 
Ocelot     : I regret to inform you that I have no intention of selling Metal Gear. As I said, I came to take it back. 
[Ocelot slowly paces away from them and then turns around.] 
Ocelot     :  Yes returned. To the Patriots! 
[The Marine Commandant recognizes the name.  He is startled.] 
Dolph      : The La-li-lu-le-lo! How's that possible!? 
[Gurlukovich restrains the commandant and snarls at Ocelot.] 
Sergei     : Ocelot, you...! Have you sold us out? 
Ocelot     : I was never in your employ, Gurlukovich... 
Sergei     : Are you still in league with Solidus...!? 
Ocelot     : No hard feelings, Colonel. Mother Russia can rot, for all I care. 
Sergei     : Since when, Ocelot! When did you turn? 
 
Sergei     : Aargh! 
Ocelot     : Metal Gear only has room for one! Gurlukovich, you and your daughter will die here. 
Sergei     : Damn you!!! 
[Gurlukovich releases the commandant and shoves him forward.  At the same time Ocelot throws his trench coat into the air between him and Gurlukovich.] 
Sergei     : Die, you dog! 
[Both the Russians draw their weapons and fire madly.  As the trench coat flies to the ground bullets rip through it.  When it finally settles Both the commandant and Gurlukovich fall to the ground.] 
Ocelot     : Sergei! Looks like you were long overdue for retirement. 
[Ocelot lets go of his revolver and it clatters to the floor.] 
Sergei     : Traitorous dog... 
[The other Russian soldiers surrounding Ocelot draw their guns to fire on him. With lightning speed he draws his second revolver and twirls in a quick circle burying one bullet in each soldier.  As they fall to the ground Ocelot pulls out the detonator.] 
Ocelot     : Show's over! If you wish to live, I suggest you run now! This ship is still in the Lower New York Harbor. You may yet make it to shore if you swim for your life! 
[Ocelot presses the detonator and the SEMTEX goes off killing some Marines. One of the blasts punctures the hull of the ship and water begins to pour into the chamber.  The Marines scramble.  Ocelot has climbed up to the upper platform of the hold and is approaching the open cockpit of Metal Gear Ray. Some Marines try to shoot Ocelot but none of the shots hit their mark. Snake rushes forward and aims upwards at Ocelot.] 
Snake      : OCELOT!! 
[Ocelot looks down at Snake but before he does anything his arm begins to twitch.] 
Ocelot     : Aaaarrghhhh!! 
[Ocelot grabs his right arm in pain.  He straightens up but this time his voice is different.  He is speaking in a familiar voice.] 
Ocelot     : It's been a while, brother. 
Snake      : Who are you? 
Ocelot     : You know who I am. 
Snake      : Liquid? 
[Memories of Shadow Moses come to Snake.] 
Liquid     : Not so young anymore, eh, Snake? You're drowning in time. I know what it's like, brother. 
Snake      : ... 
Liquid     : No wonder Naomi passed you over for the FOXDIE program. 
[Ocelot's right arm begins to twitch again.] 
Liquid     : Aaarrrr! 
Ocelot     : Out -- get out of my mind! Liquid... 
[Ocelot bites his arm.  Liquid is still in control.] 
Liquid     : The price of physical prodigy... Few more years and you'll be another dead clone of the old man. Our raw materials are vintage, brother. Big Boss was in his late fifties when they created his copies. But I -- I live on, through this arm. 
Snake      : Liquid's arm? 
[An explosion knocks Snake into the water.] 
[Gurlukovich floats on the surface of the water that is pouring into the hold. Blood is gushing out of his wound.] 
Sergei     : Olga... 
[Liquid leaps into the open cockpit of Metal Gear Ray as Snake is climbing out of the water, gasping for air.] 
Liquid     : You don't have what it takes after all. 
[Liquid slams Ray into the ceiling.] 
Liquid     : You're going down, Snake, with this tanker! 
[Snake tries to dodge one of the legs coming down at him but he gets knocked unconscious.  Up on a balcony some marines begin to fire gunshots at him and some RPGs.  Liquid turns Ray to the marines and smashes them with the leg of the great machine.  Snake regains consciousness and says something to Otacon.] 
Snake      : Otacon, we have a problem... 
[Ray plunges its head into the water and begins to suck some water into its system.  It then raises its head and fires a high-powered stream of water into the hull of the tanker.  Water pours in.] 
Otacon     : Snake!! Snaaaake!!! 
[Metal Gear Ray swims through the water and leaps above the water. It straddles a large crack that has appeared near the middle of the ship.  Snake surfaces and gasps frantically for air.  Ocelot is sitting in the cockpit of Ray peering down at Snake.  Ocelot is talking to someone over the radio.] 
Ocelot     : No problems...proceeding as planned, sir. 
[Ray does a back flip into the water and sends an enormous wave washing over Snake.  He begins to slip under the water.] 
[Ray swims through the water.  ocelot is still talking to the person over the radio.] 
Ocelot     : ...Yes, at the location we discussed. Yes. I have photographic evidence of Snake on the scene. The Cypher was most useful...I look forward to tomorrow morning's news flash. I would say the Marine Corps' plans are on indefinite hold.  Yes, of course, Mr. President... 
[Overhead view of the sinking ship, Snake is nowhere to be seen.] 
Otacon     : SNAKE!! 
==============================================================================
==============================================================================  Plant Chapter Script 
==============================================================================
============================================================================== 
Scientists had to make thousands of calculations to create the (atomic bomb)
and determine its effects... Computers and atomic bombs, both products of World
 
Information Age: People, information, and Technology exhibition- Nation Museum
of American History, Smithsonian Institute. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 01)  Big Shell
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯   --  Verrazano Bridge, April 29th  --  
[Overhead view of the Verrazano Bridge.  Two military helicopters are flying through the early morning skies.] 
Colonel    : Snake, do you remember the sinking of that tanker two years ago? 
Snake      : Of course. 
Colonel    : Terrorists blow a hole in an oil tanker full of crude, barely 20 miles off the shore of Manhattan, your classic nightmare. It didn't take long for the government to put an oil fence around the whole mess. And then that massive offshore cleanup facility went up inside. 
 
Colonel    : It takes time. But in the meantime, the Shell's become a landmark, a symbol of environmental protection. Approximately six hours ago, the Big Shell was seized by an armed group. 
Snake      : Do we have an ID? 
 
[As the SEAL choppers swoop in to the Big Shell a group of NYPD officers peer curiously through a pair of binoculars.] 
Commander  : Calling teams Alpha and Bravo. Deploy at the Big Shell as scheduled. 
[As the SEALS are on their final approach to the Big Shell the FoxHound
operative pops above the water to check his bearings.  He goes unnoticed] 
Commander  : Come in from downwind, then pull up fast! Get ready to fast rope down to Shell One! Five minutes to ETA! Alpha, your top priority is to rescue and safeguard the President! Team Bravo, watch out for Stillman's back, and get those C4's disarmed! 
[Snake swims to the oil fence and finds that a hole has already been cut in it.  He promptly swims through.] 
Snake      : What are their demands? 
Colonel    : Thirty billion dollars. 
Snake      : Thirty billion dollars!? What makes them think they can get that much? 
Colonel    : There was a government-sponsored tour going on at the Big Shell that day. 
Snake      : Hostages, huh? 
Colonel    : A VIP from one of the major conservation groups, and one from our own government -- the Most Important Person in a sense. 
Snake      : The most important person -- ? 
Colonel    : James Johnson. 
Snake      : The President! 
Colonel    : Unless the demands are met, the terrorists intend to blow the Big Shell out of the water. 
Snake      : And the crude will ignite, turning the Manhattan Harbor into an inferno. 
Colonel    : That's not the worst-case scenario. If the chlorides being used to decontaminate the seawater go up with the oil, toxins containing catastrophic levels of dioxins will be released. In other words, the bay's ecosystem will be wiped out, and the sea will turn into a toxic soup for centuries -- becoming the worst environmental disaster in history. 
[Snake swims up through a dock in the Big Shell.] 
 
[Snake reaches the surface of the Deep Sea Dock of the Big Shell and makes a quick scan for enemies lurking around.  Seeing none he climbs up a ladder and gets onto  the platform.] 
Colonel    : You should know... that SEAL Team 10 is also conducting a rescue operation. 
Snake      : Is this a joint effort? 
Colonel    : No. FOXHOUND remains a covert body. Don't alert them to your presence -- that is an order. 
[Snake calls the Colonel with his Codec.] 
Snake      : This is Snake. I am now inside Strut A of Shell 1. 
Colonel    : How are things? 
Snake      : We're in luck. Looks like there are no sentries posted here. 
Colonel    : What's the visibility? 
Snake      : The lights on the plant's struts are functioning. I won't have to use the IR goggles. 
Colonel    : Any problems? 
Snake      : There was a brand-new hole cut through the oil fence. There's someone else besides me that wanted to get in badly. 
Colonel    : That's not possible. 
Snake      : What about SEAL Team 10? 
Colonel    : They landed on the roof of the Big Shell as planned. And by the way Snake, we're changing your code name for all following communication. 
 
 
Raiden     : I've completed three hundred missions in VR. I feel like some kind of legendary mercenary... 
Colonel    : Okay, we'll skip that part. Make sure nobody sees you. If you need to, contact me by Codec. The frequency is 140.85. When you want to use the Codec, push the SELECT button. When we need to reach you...contact you, the Codec will beep. When you hear that noise, press the SELECT button. The Codec's receiver directly stimulates the small bones of your ear. No one but you will be able to hear it. 
Raiden     : All right. I'll contact you if anything changes. 
Colonel    : First, make your way to the upper section of the Big Shell. 
Raiden     : How do I get up to the next level? 
Colonel    : There's an elevator at the far end of that area. Use that. 
Raiden     : Sounds good. 
[Views of Raiden's Sneaking suit are shown.] 
 
Raiden     : There's a lot of pressure on my torso. 
 
Raiden     : Skull suit -- seems appropriate somehow. 
Colonel    : The hatch with a circular handle will open into the elevator area. Locate the hatch first. 
Raiden     : Copy that. Moving onto main mission objectives. 
[Raiden signs off. Raiden proceeds through the hatch and when he opens it he spots an enemy that has just been knocked unconscious.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, I've sighted an enemy sentry. AN-94 and a Makarov... those grenades...all his equipment are Russian-made. 
Colonel    : Must be a Gurlukovich man. 
Raiden     : Gurlukovich? 
Colonel    : A Russian private army that was in line to work with the Shadow Moses takeover group, four years ago. 
Raiden     : What's their stake in this one? 
Colonel    : They must have made a deal -- an arrangement with the terrorists. They've become a band of mercenaries, an army without a country. 
[Raiden signs off. When he goes into the next room he finds two unconscious sentries.  One of them just rolled off the elevator ascending in the back of the room.  Raiden catches a quick glimpse of the man.  He is wearing a familiar uniform.  He calls up the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, there's definitely another intruder in here besides me. 
Colonel    : That's not a possibility. 
Raiden     : Not a team -- looks like a solo job. 
Colonel    : One man...? 
Raiden     : We may not know who he is, but he managed to take care of every sentry in the area; they're all out cold. Whoever he is, he's got some skills. 
Colonel    : We need to get an ID... But for now, you can take advantage of the situation and get to work. There's a terminal in front of the elevator, a node. 
 
 
Raiden     : Oh. 
Colonel    : Use the node to gain access to the Big Shell's facilities network. 
Raiden     : Then what? 
Colonel    : Pull up the map of the structure; that'll let you activate the Soliton Radar. 
Raiden     : The Soliton Radar? True, that radar came in useful during VR training. 
Colonel    : A radar system. Uses biological magnetic fields as input. These estimated enemy positions are projected onto a map according to reference points collected via GPS signals and field personnel reports. We need to get to the map through the Big Shell's node to put this data processing to practical use. The node unit is about three feet high and should be colored blue. Each area has at least one. 
Raiden     : How do I gain access? 
Colonel    : Just push the Action button in front of the node. The nanomachines in your body will take care of the security clearance, and allow you access to the node. Complete the procedure before those sentries gain consciousness. If they spot you, you won't be able to gain access for a while. Stay on guard. 
Raiden     : Got it. 
[Raiden signs off and moves to the node.  When he places his hand on it a jolt of electricity is sent through his arm.  He screams out.  When the shock ends he pants and finishes the login sequence.  He calls the Colonel again.] 
Colonel    : Good work, Raiden. 
Raiden     : The radar should be functioning now? 
Colonel    : Remember your VR training sessions. The tool is exactly the same one -- it maps the terrain as well as the position of enemy personnel. The bright dot in the middle is you, Raiden. The red dots are your enemies and the blue cone shape represents their field of vision.  Your radar isn't affected by the weather, but if you're discovered by an enemy you won't be able to use it. It gets jammed easily I'm afraid. It's all made from currently existing technology. You won't be able to use it in an area with strong harmonic resonance. So be careful. The Big Shell's layout map should now be available after touching the START button. 
Raiden     : How do I save the mission data? 
Colonel    : I've set aside a proprietary frequency for saves. And an analyst to work on the data too. 
[A young woman, maybe in her early 20s comes onscreen.] 
Woman      : Jack, is everything all right? 
Raiden     : What are you doing here!? 
Woman      : Jack, can you hear me? 
Raiden     : 
Rose! You're not supposed to be involved! What's going on!? 
Rose       : Jack, I'm a part of this mission. 
Raiden     : Colonel, what the hell is going on? 
Colonel    : Raiden, meet the mission analyst. She'll be overseeing the data saving and support. 
Raiden     : Why her? 
Colonel    : The FOXHOUND analyst that was supposed to take part in this mission was in an accident. Rosemary was brought in as a replacement. 
Raiden     : An accident...? 
Colonel    : And according to the files, she knows you better than anybody else. 
Raiden     : Rose may be in the service, but an intelligence analyst is no field officer. 
Colonel    : Not to worry. She has our technical staff at her disposal. 
Raiden     : She's never been a part of a field mission. This is insane. 
Colonel    : I have my own reasons for selecting her for this mission, soldier. 
Raiden     : Colonel, I fail to see -- 
Colonel    : I know your VR training performance in and out. But sometimes that's not enough. You're familiar with the Shadow Moses incident? 
Raiden     : You know I covered it in VR. 
Colonel    : If there's a crucial tactical detail that case taught us, it was the power of the operative's will to survive. 
Raiden     : I was trained to fight. My personal feelings have no place in a mission. 
Colonel    : We've learned that it doesn't work that way. And on the field, you need all the help you can get. 
Rose       : Jack? You're stuck with me whether you like it or not. 
Raiden     : Rose... 
Rose       : You need someone to watch your back. But I have conditions that need to be met, Colonel. 
Colonel    : What is it? 
Rose       : I'll perform my duties and save that mission data. But I'm aware that technically, I'm not part of the mission control team. After all, I'm just a normal girl who's worried about Jack. But that means, Colonel, that I am not required to follow your orders outside of my immediate duties. Jack is not simply a field personnel for me to track. His safety comes first to me, not the mission. And because of that, I will be monitoring and keeping a record of every communication you have with him, Colonel. 
Colonel    : ...Given the circumstances, you're free to do what you see fit. 
Rose       : Hey, I prefer this to being kept in the dark, waiting. 
Colonel    : I'd like to make a request, if I may. 
Rose       : Of course. 
Colonel    : His handle is Raiden. For the duration of the mission, could you call him that? 
Rose       : Yes sir. All right -- Raiden. Let me know when you're ready to turn in a save. The proprietary save frequency is 140.96. 
[The frequency switches to 140.96 (Rose's)] 
Rose       : I just switched frequencies. Jack? 
Raiden     : What? 
Rose       : Do you know what day it is tomorrow? 
Raiden     : April 30th -- is there something special about it? 
Rose       : Isn't there? 
Raiden     : I can't remember. I'm sorry. 
Rose       : Oh well, I'll keep trying 'til I hear the answer. I'm going to let you go now, Jack. Take care. 
[The transmission ends.  The enemy sentries are regaining consciousness.  The Colonel contacts Raiden.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, the enemy sentry is regaining consciousness. 
Rose       : Be careful, Jack! 
Colonel    : Find somewhere to hide until the elevator arrives. You must stay out of sight! 
[The Colonel signs off. Raiden avoids the sentries and makes it to the elevator without alerting anybody.  As the elevator ascends he takes off the diving mask to reveal his face.  He has long white hair and very pale skin.] 
 
Raiden     : Sons of Liberty? 
Colonel    : The name of their leader is Solid Snake. 
Raiden     : The hero of Shadow Moses!? So that's why you changed my code name. 
[The elevator grinds to a halt at the top of the shaft, scaring some birds that fly off into the bright sunlight.] 
Colonel    : Right. But it can't be THE Solid Snake. He died two years ago, on that tanker, after he blew it sky-high. 
Raiden     : Could he have survived? 
Colonel    : Not a chance... 
[Raiden takes cover behind some storage crates.  He calls the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, I'm on the roof. There are no sentries, but it would only take one to spot me in this light. 
Colonel    : You never had daylight VR training, after all. Stay extra sharp until you can find a node to log in from. 
Raiden     : What about the commandos? 
Colonel    : SEAL Team 10 has landed on Struts B and C. 
Raiden     : And the President? 
Colonel    : Seems he was spotted on Strut B. 
Raiden     : Strut B? 
Colonel    : The Big Shell is comprised of Shells One and Two. Each unit consists of a central core and six struts surrounding it. 
Raiden     : So the whole thing is shaped like two hexagons connected end-on-end. 
Colonel    : Exactly. And you're on the roof of Strut A, Shell One at the moment. First, get to a node. Log into the network. 
Raiden     : Got it. 
[The call ends.  Raiden has just passed the first entryway into Strut A when the Colonel contacts him again.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, SEAL Team 10 is in. 
Raiden     : Do we really have no line of communication with the SEALs? 
Colonel    : They don't know a thing about us. You know we work in the dark, and this mission is no exception. Only a few people know about your presence here. 
Raiden     : ... 
Colonel    : There's no need for concern. This operation is under Pentagon's direct command, and the NSDD (National Security Decision Directives) came from the Vice President and the Secretary of Defense. Your mission may be top-secret, but it's gone through the usual channels. 
[The Colonel signs off. Raiden makes it to the next connecting bridge.  He gets a call from the Colonel.] 
Colonel    : Wait a second, I just intercepted new intelligence on the operation being executed by SEAL Team 10. 
Raiden     : Intercepted? 
Colonel    : As I said before, they need to be kept in the dark about our presence. 
Raiden     : So we just listen in... 
Colonel    : I'm patching it through. 
SEAL       : This is Alpha Zero. We have the President. 
Commander  : Is he safe? 
SEAL       : He is safe. 
Commander  : What about the package? 
SEAL       : Tell the guys upstairs that we've secured the package. Easy money. 
Commander  : Good work. Your retrieval is on the way. Come on home... 
SEAL       : Roger that... H-holy! 
[Gunfire erupts over the line.] 
Commander  : Alpha Zero! Report!!! 
SEAL       : Dammit! Cover the President!! 
Commander  : Come in, Alpha Zero! 
SEAL       : This is Alpha Zero. We are under attack! This is crazy! Is that...!? 
Commander  : Alpha Zero, respond! 
[The transmission goes dead.] 
Commander  : All Alpha, respond! 
Colonel    : Raiden, the President's life in danger! Head to Strut B now! 
[Transmission ends.] 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 02)  The twirly guy with the knives
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[When Raiden reaches strut B he meets a gruesome scene.  There is blood all over the walls and floor next to the bodies of two dead SEALs.  Raiden takes out his recently acquired M9 pistol and advances with caution to the nearest doorway.] 
[The view switches to the inside of the room.  Three SEALs are patrolling through a large transformer room with their guns drawn at the ready.  Out of nowhere three knives appear, one hitting the front soldier in the neck, he goes down.] 
SEAL A     : Uaaagh! 
[The two remaining SEALs start firing at random into the rafters, at an unseen enemy.  The enemy quickly leaps about the rafters deftly avoiding all their shots.] 
SEAL B     : Damn it! I can't hit him! 
[The enemy makes a foray towards the SEALs from behind.  He slices the furthest SEAL quickly, he falls to the ground screaming.] 
SEAL B     : Aaargh!!! 
[The remaining SEAL begins to panic.  He starts spinning wildly and shooting randomly into the rafters.] 
SEAL C     : Aa Aa Aaargh!!! 
[The SEAL commander comes over the radio.] 
Commander  : Alpha Zero, come in Alpha Zero. 
[As the SEAL continues his attack the enemy leaps down from the rafters coming down softly in front of the SEAL.] 
SEAL C     : Aah! Oh no, no! 
[The enemy takes out a knife from a belt on his waist and gives the SEAL a menacing stare.  The SEAL hesitates briefly and then begins to fire again at the enemy.  The enemy spins towards the SEAL with his knife drawn and once again manages to dodge all the bullets meant for him.  He reaches the SEAL and promptly slits his wrists.  As the SEAL cries out in pain he circles around and cuts him across the kneecaps from behind.  The man falls to his knees but doesn't hit the ground.  The enemy holds him up and carefully, slowly, he slits the throat of the SEAL.  As the blood pours out the enemy appears to be in some sort of brief trance.  The body falls to the floor, limp.  The radio squawks.] 
Commander  : All Alpha, come in! What's going on? Alpha, respond! 
[Raiden slowly enters the room.  He reaches a railing undetected and peers beyond it.  He lets out a muffled gasp when he sees that the enemy is sucking the blood out of the soldier.  The enemy slowly turns his head and snarls at Raiden.  He hastily lets the body drop to the floor.  He pulls a knife out of his belt.] 
Raiden     : What are you? 
[The man draws the knife across his chest.  Slowly slicing the skin.] 
Vamp       : Five today... Or rather, six? 
[The man leaps clear over Raiden but Raiden can't react fast enough.  He still has his gun drawn as the man reaches out from behind him to tap his shoulder. Suddenly a SEAL bursts into the room.] 
SEAL       : Get down!! 
[The SEAL rattles off a burst of bullets in Vamp's direction as Raiden ducks under it.  Once again Vamp has evaded the bullets.  The SEAL slowly enters the room and scans all the directions.  The enemy is nowhere to be seen.] 
SEAL       : Where is he! 
[Vamp leaps down from the ceiling and slashes the SEAL's left arm.  Vamp slams the SEAL against the wall and draws close to him.] 
SEAL       : Agh! 
[The SEAL's rifle slides toward Raiden. He quickly grabs it and takes aim at
Vamp.  Vamp's head moves close to the SEAL's neck.] 
Vamp       : Hmmm? Strange smell... You smell like -- ! 
[Vamp drops the SEAL to the ground, stunned.] 
Vamp       : Are you...it has to be! 
SEAL       : Shoot him! What are you waiting for! 
[Raiden lets out a full clip in Vamp's direction but none make their mark.] 
Raiden     : ! 
[A female's voice comes over the man's radio.] 
Woman      : Vamp. 
Vamp       : Yeah, Queen. 
[The SEAL slides a clip to Raiden.  The clip slides underneath Vamp's spread legs unnoticed or largely ignored.] 
Woman      : Are you all done cleaning up? 
Vamp       : Yes. But wait till I tell you what I found... 
Woman      : Something interesting? 
[Raiden grabs the clip.] 
Vamp       : I'll tell you in person. Where are you? 
Woman      : In the central unit, with the President. 
[Raiden loads the clip into the gun as fast as he can.] 
Vamp       : Be right there. 
[Raiden cocks the rifle and aims at where Vamp is but he isn't there.  Vamp is then heard jumping about in the rafters but Raiden can't find a target.  As Vamp disappears Raiden takes aim at the SEAL.] 
SEAL       : I'm not a enemy. Calm down.  My name is S... My name is Pliskin. Iroquois Pliskin, Lieutenant Junior Grade. 
Raiden     : Are you a Navy SEAL? How did you get in? 
Pliskin    : Fast rope decent from a Navy chopper. 
[A sea lice crawls out from under Pliskin.  Raiden gives it an odd look, something is wrong.] 
Raiden     : Have I seen you before? 
Pliskin    : That suit, are you FOX-HOUND? 
Raiden     : That's right. 
Pliskin    : FOX-HOUND was disbanded. 
Raiden     : ...? 
Pliskin    : Where were you before FOX-HOUND? Delta Force? 
[Real life of special ops training is shown as well as some video from Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions.] 
Raiden     : I was a part of the Army's  Force XXI trials... 
Pliskin    : Force XXI? That's about tactical IT deployment, right? Any field experience? 
Raiden     : No -- not really. 
Pliskin    : So this is your first. 
Raiden     : I've had extensive training -- the kind that's indistinguishable from the real thing. 
Pliskin    : Like what? 
Raiden     : Sneaking mission 60, Weapons 80, 
Pliskin    : VR, huh. 
Raiden     : But realistic in every way. 
Pliskin    : A virtual grunt of the digital age.  That's just great. 
Raiden     : That's far more effective  than live exercises. 
Pliskin    : You don't get injured in VR, do you? Every year, a few soldiers die in field exercises. 
Raiden     : There's pain sensation in VR, and  even a sense of reality and urgency. The only difference is that it isn't actually happening. 
Pliskin    : That's the way they want you to think, to remove you from the fear that goes with battle situations. War as a video game -- what better way to raise the ultimate soldier? 
[Raiden gives Pliskin his rifle.] 
Raiden     : So your saying VR training is some kind of mind control? 
[The Colonel calls Raiden.] 
Colonel    : Raiden what's going on? 
Raiden     : The Alpha team from Navy SEAL team 10 is dead. No, a single survivor. 
Pliskin    : The kid's wired with nanomachines. 
[The Codec screen pops up.] 
Colonel    : What about the President? 
Raiden     : Looks like they took him somewhere else... 
Colonel    : I see... You said there was a survivor from SEAL Team 10? 
Raiden     : Yeah. Lieutenant J.G. Pliskin. 
Colonel    : Has he seen your face? 
Raiden     : What? 
Colonel    : This is a top-secret mission. No one can know that we're involved. 
Raiden     : It's a little too late for that. 
[Pliskin walks down to the lower level and Raiden follows.] 
Raiden     : What's up? 
Pliskin    : Take a look. 
[Raiden looks at where Pliskin is looking.  There is a Navy Captain lying on the ground with blood oozing out of some fresh wounds.  There is a broken handcuff on his left wrist.] 
Pliskin    : A Navy Captain. 
Raiden     : What the hell!? 
[Pliskin stumbles towards the stairs.] 
Raiden     : You all right? 
Pliskin    : Give me a few minutes. 
[Pliskin takes out a cigarette.] 
Pliskin    : Must have lost a few more pints then I thought. 
Raiden     : What was that man just now? That blood sucking freak? That was Vamp. 
[Pictures of Vamp and Dead Cell are shown.] 
Pliskin    : He's Romanian, a wizard with knives as you saw. 
Raiden     : The way he moved --  didn't seem human. 
Pliskin    : You won't see that in VR, I guarantee. 
Raiden     : What is he? 
Pliskin    : One of the members of Dead Cell. 
Raiden     : Dead Cell... Him? 
Pliskin    : A special forces unit created by  Ex-President George Sears. The name was originally intended to reflect its anti-terrorist functions. The unit would launch unannounced  assaults on government complexes, for the ultimate terrorism simulation. They were needed to show VR troopers like you how to deal with the real thing.  But around the time their original leader died in prison, the unit began to unravel. They were always close to the edge, but they became more and more extreme. Began to go after U.S. allies, even civilians. We estimate that no fewer than a hundred people died on accidents the Dead Cell arranged on their own. They were out of control -- and it all  came to a head six months ago. 
Raiden     : What happened? 
Pliskin    : The unit was devastated. There are only three left now --  and you just saw one of them. 
Raiden     : Why would they go after the Big Shell? 
Pliskin    : How should I know? I told you they were on the lunatic fringe. 
Raiden     : What about the leader? He says he's Solid Snake? 
Pliskin    : Snake died two years ago. 
[Flashbacks of the Tanker incident are shown.] 
Raiden     : You mean the incident that made this Big Shell necessary in the first place. 
Pliskin    : Right. And he was the one  that sank that tanker. 
Raiden     : But he's a Legend -- 
Pliskin    : Legends are usually bad news. There's not a lot of difference between heroes and madmen... 
Raiden     : You're saying Snake is still alive and pulled another one? 
Pliskin    : No, he's not involved in this one. His body was positively ID'd two years ago. Snake is dead... And buried. 
[Guards patrolling on a connecting bridge are shown.] 
Raiden     : What about the other soldiers? I saw Russian equipment too. 
Pliskin    : Former Soviet military.  They're probably mercenaries. The Big Shell is too much ground for just Dead Cell members to hold down. You weren't briefed on any of this? ...And you came in alone to boot? What are you really doing here? 
[Raiden doesn't speak.] 
Pliskin    : Not gonna tell me, huh? Fine with me. 
[Pliskin hands Raiden some cigarettes.] 
Raiden     : I don't smoke. 
Pliskin    : Keep it anyway, may come in handy. 
[Raiden puts the cigarettes in his pocket.  Pliskin pulls out a SOCOM pistol and hands it to him too.] 
Pliskin    : Take this too. 
[Raiden takes the SOCOM.] 
Raiden     : Here, take this. 
[The radio on Pliskin's back erupts with a voice.] 
Navy SEAL  : Come in Alpha Zero. This is Bravo Zero, currently at the bridge between Struts B and C. The President is... 
[Gunshots are heard over the radio.] 
Navy SEAL  : Damn, I can't hit this thing! It's like some bad dream. Alpha! Anyone. Come in all Alpha! This is Bravo Zero. 
Raiden     : Aren't you going to answer him? 
[Pliskin reluctantly reaches for the radio.  But an explosion is heard and the line goes dead.] 
Pliskin    : The B-C connecting bridge. 
Raiden     : We need to get there. Can you handle it? 
Pliskin    : I need a few more minutes. Remember my frequency, it's 141.80. 
Raiden     : 141.80, got it. 
Pliskin    : I've been briefed on this plant's layout. If you need information about the place or on Dead Cell contact me. Your using nanocommunication, right? 
Raiden     : Yeah, but I can patch into your frequency. 
[Raiden begins to walk up the stairs.] 
Pliskin    : Hey, what's your name? 
Raiden     : Raiden. 
Pliskin    : Raiden? Strange codename. 
Raiden     : Makes up for the boring one my parents gave me. 
[Raiden walks away.] 
Pliskin    : Maybe I'll find out some day. 
[On his way to the BC Connecting Bridge he is contacted by Rose.] 
Rose       : Jack, it's me... 
Raiden     : Everything okay, Rose? 
Rose       : Don't you need to save the mission data? 
Raiden     : Oh yeah -- thanks for the reminder. 
Rose       : Jack, do you remember what day tomorrow is? 
Raiden     : That again... I'm sorry, but I still don't have a clue. 
Rose       : That's okay. 
Raiden     : What is it, Rose? Talk to me. 
Rose       : I'd rather you figure it out. It's important. 
Raiden     : How important? 
Rose       : Important enough. And we'll talk about it, tomorrow. 
Raiden     : Why not now? 
Rose       : Tomorrow seems more -- appropriate. I need all the help I can get so that I won't chicken out anyway. 
Raiden     : Is that the reason you decided to be part of this mission? OK... I'm going to finish this thing by tomorrow, no matter what. 
Rose       : You know I'll do everything I can to help you. 
Raiden     : Rose, there's something I need you to do as an analyst. It has to do with Solid Snake. The leader of this takeover incident is claiming that he's Snake himself. 
Rose       : The legendary mercenary? Hm. 
Raiden     : I need as much data on him as possible. Everything they have on him after the Shadow Moses incident. 
Rose       : He's dead now, isn't he? 
Raiden     : Yes. Should be a burial record somewhere too. You should be able to request top-level security clearance from the Colonel. That should get us into the most classified material. 
Rose       : I'm on it. I'll contact you as soon as I find out something. 
[Raiden signs off.] 
[Raiden reaches the bridge and spots two SEALs firing prone at a target across the bridge.  The target is a tall, slim, black woman with blonde hair.  She is carrying a menacing gun and at her feet are a man in a suit and a black suitcase.  The bullets fired at her seem to move away when they near her.] 
Raiden     : What the hell is that? 
Woman      : Come, put me out of my misery. 
SEAL 1     : This is impossible. Nothing will hit her. 
SEAL 2     : Is she the one they call Fortune? 
[Vamp walks out from the building behind her.  He casually picks up the man
and the suitcase.  As he begins to walk back to the building he pauses.] 
Vamp       : Queen. 
[He walks back into the building with the President and the black suitcase.] 
Navy SEAL  : Don't let them take the President! 
A group of SEALs advances down the walkway towards Fortune.] 
Navy SEAL  : Ready grenades. 
A SEAL fires a grenade. It rolls to Fortune's side but nothing happens.] 
Navy SEAL  : A dud. 
[The SEALs begin to advance.] 
Fortune    : Today is another bad day. 
[Fortune activates her rail gun and aims it at the SEALs.] 
Fortune    : Is there anyone here that can give me happiness? 
[She fires her rail gun at the SEALs.  The SEALs are thrown into the air and off the bridge.  The walkway between the connecting bridge and the Shell 1 Core is destroyed.  When the smoke clears one of the SEALs is hanging on the edge of the destroyed bridge.  He tries to pull himself up but can't.  He falls into the ocean below as Fortune looks on unemotionally.] 
[Soon after a seagull falls at her feet, killed by her gun.] 
Fortune    : I'm so sorry my beauties. I'll see you again some day. 
[As Fortune begins to walk away the seagulls begin to fall out of the sky. Raiden stops watching and calls the Colonel on the Codec.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, SEAL Team 10's Bravo team was wiped out. 
Colonel    : I see. 
Raiden     : What happened to the cargo choppers? 
Colonel    : Both of them are at the bottom of the harbor. Looks like your new hosts have a Harrier 2. 
Raiden     : A Harrier? What is this? 
Colonel    : Calm down. It just means they anticipated the attack. Besides, since the SEALs drew their fire, your infiltration went off without a hitch. On top of that, we know their defensive capabilities. 
Raiden     : Are you saying that this was all a feint? 
Colonel    : Raiden, get a hold of yourself. The entire mission is in your hands now, do you understand? 
Raiden     : But... 
Colonel    : There's no time for questions. They could decide to retaliate for that failed assault. 
Raiden     : You mean the hostages? 
Colonel    : They could be in danger, yes. But we need to consider the possibility that they'll blow the whole Shell. If that toxic spill does take place, it'll devastate not only the harbor, but poison the coastline for generations.  Raiden, we've had to adjust the mission objectives. The priority is now on removing those C4's that the terrorists wired over the Big Shell. The President can wait, but this can't. 
Raiden     : Colonel, you know I'm no bomb disposal expert. 
Colonel    : That's not a problem -- the Bravo team brought an explosives pro in with them.  He was supposed to standby on Strut C according to their mission. You should find him there. 
Raiden     : Is this according to simulation too...? 
Colonel    : What are you talking about? Get to Strut C and find him! 
Raiden     : Understood... But I need to ask you something before I go. 
Colonel    : Make it quick. 
Raiden     : Who are they -- Dead Cell, I mean? They couldn't hit her, no matter how hard they tried... And that vampire too. It's -- it's like... It's like being in a nightmare you can't wake up from. 
Rose       : Jack, snap out of it! 
Raiden     : And you Rose -- I can't believe you're on this mission. I keep thinking I'll wake up... 
Rose       : Raiden, this is real. And that's why you won't wake up. 
Raiden     : But nothing seems real. 
Rose       : I've made up my mind to stay with you. Whether this is real or a bad dream, I'll keep watching you, till it's over. 
Raiden     : Thank you, Rose. And I won't let you be just a dream... 
Colonel    : Are you two done? Raiden, you're needed on Strut C. 
[Raiden signs off.] 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 03)  Why do I have to do this crap?
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[When Raiden arrives in Strut C he finds a man kneeling on the floor by a countertop.  He is wearing an NYPD jacket.] 
Raiden     : Freeze! 
Man        : Don't shoot. 
[The man slowly raises his hands.  He places his hands by a wrench that is lying on the countertop.] 
Raiden     : You a cop? 
Man        : I'm not NYPD. I came in with the Bravo Team. Who are you with and what happened to SEAL Team 10? 
Raiden     : There all dead. 
Man        : All of them!? That's bad. 
[The man slowly gets up.] 
Raiden     : Did I tell you could move? 
Pliskin    : It's all right, he's not one of the bad guys. 
[Pliskin is walking towards Raiden calmly.] 
Pliskin    : Don't go pointing that thing everywhere, kid. 
[The man on the ground walks forward.  He uses a cane to help him limp along.] 
Pliskin    : What's your name? 
Man        : My name is Peter, Peter Stillman. 
Pliskin    : A lecturer at NSEOD, Indian Head. Also consultant to the NYPD Bomb Squad. 
Stillman   : A poor old man who got dragged along for this picnic. 
Pliskin    : I thought you retired. 
Stillman   : I did. Can't keep up with everybody, as you can see. And a famous church got wiped off the map, thanks to me, with too many lives inside. All I lost was this leg. 
Raiden     : So your the bomb disposal guy. 
[A picture of Stillman is shown.] 
Pliskin    : Kid, this is THE bomb disposal guy. Open any explosives disposal textbook and you'll see his name. 
Stillman   : Heh, just ancient history now. 
Raiden     : Why did they bring you out of retirement then? 
Stillman   : Because the terrorist group here includes one of my students. 
[A picture of Fatman is shown.] 
Stillman   : The Emperor of Explosives -- Fatman. He built an atomic bomb when he was only ten. I created him in a sense. 
Pliskin    : And that's why you're here... 
Stillman   : I'm pretty rusty. I was supposed to supervise the bomb disposal -- looks like it was taken care of before I had my turn. 
Pliskin    : I wouldn't say that. There are at least two people here that can claim to be experts at bomb disposal. 
Stillman   : Are you two with SEAL Team 10? I didn't see you at the mission briefing. 
Pliskin    : Oh were...with another squad. My name is Pliskin, Lieutenant Junior Grade. 
[Pliskin holds out his hand for Stillman to shake but Stillman ignores him.] 
Stillman   : Mr. Pliskin, do you have any experience with explosives disposal? 
Pliskin    : Don't worry about me. And he looks young but he can do it. But we need more manpower. 
Raiden     : I umm... 
Stillman   : What's your name? 
Raiden     : Raiden. 
Stillman   : That's a odd name. 
Raiden     : Any other survivors? 
Stillman   : There was also a engineer with us. 
Raiden     : A engineer? 
[Pictures of the SEALs exiting the choppers are shown.  There is a man in a white lab coat walking among them.] 
Stillman   : A skinny guy. He went in with us... 
Raiden     : Where is he? 
Stillman   : I haven't seen him since that skirmish. 
Raiden     : Was he killed? 
Stillman   : I don't think so. I didn't find his body. 
Raiden     : I see... 
Stillman   : They told me he was the security systems architect for the Big Shell. 
Raiden     : Why would they take a civilian along? 
Stillman   : Everything in this structure is computer-controlled. He was supposed to get us past all the security measures. 
Raiden     : I never heard anything about that. 
Stillman   : He had official orders with him. 
Pliskin    : We'll leave that for later. Right now, we need to figure out how to deal with all the bombs. 
Raiden     : But there's no one left from the SEAL's EOD (Explosive Ordnance Disposal) squad. 
Pliskin    : Yep. So we have to do it ourselves. 
Raiden     : But I've never defused a bomb before... 
[The Colonel calls Raiden.] 
Raiden     : Hold on a sec. 
Pliskin    : Off to confer with the CO again? 
[Codec screen.] 
Colonel    : Glad to hear Stillman is safe. Assist him in any way possible to clear the C4 from the structure. 
Raiden     : Colonel, you know I've never been trained in bomb disposal. 
Colonel    : It's all right. The man you're working with is the best in the field. All you have to do is follow his directions. You will of course keep your identity and mission objectives to yourself. 
Raiden     : Is it true that an engineer came in with Stillman? 
Colonel    : I wasn't informed of that. It's probably something the SEALs decided on their own. There are more important issues at hand, Raiden. The enemy may retaliate for the failed assault. Get those C4's neutralized now. 
Raiden     : Colonel, I'm not qualified for bomb disposal. 
Rose       : Jack, it's me. You can do this. Trust me. 
Colonel    : You haven't had bomb disposal training per se in VR, but you're more than capable of handling C4. 
Raiden     : ...This is a little different from using C4. 
Colonel    : You're up for this. You know that. 
Pliskin    : How about it, kid? Are the results in yet? 
[Back to Strut C.] 
Stillman   : There's no need to worry so much. You won't actually be dismantling the bombs. That's not for a amateurs. What we'll try here instead is a temporary freezing method. Here, look at this. 
[Stillman pulls out some C4.] 
Stillman   : This is a C4 bomb. 
[He flips a switch on the bomb.] 
Stillman   : It's live, you can see it pulsing. 
[Stillman picks up a canister that resembles a fire extinguisher.] 
Stillman   : Now you spray this on the sucker and... 
[He sprays the bomb.] 
Stillman   : ...there we go. Simple, huh? The spray freezes the detonator instantly. 
Raiden     : How long does the effects last? 
Stillman   : There's no way the thing can detonate in this condition. Even if you leave it alone it will stay out of commission for at least 24 hours. 
Pliskin    : That's enough time. 
Stillman   : If we had the manpower, I'd recommend complete disposal. But this will have to do. The spray can be used from several yards away. Now check the floor, ceiling, walls, and on the tables, everywhere. Try to imagine the location of the bombs could be. 
Pliskin    : That won't be easy, we don't know a thing about Fatman. 
Stillman   : That won't be a problem. 
[Stillman picks up s small gadget.] 
Stillman   : This sensor detects the scent of the signature on Fatman's bombs. 
Pliskin    : So in other words it sniffs out the bombs. 
Raiden     : What if Fatman uses a different type of scentless bomb? 
[Pictures of Fatman are shown.] 
Stillman   : I know Fatman well. I know how into his own aesthetics he is. 
Pliskin    : Signatures? 
Stillman   : Yes. On every bomb he builds, he always leaves a trace of the cologne he uses. The sensor also picks up that particular scent spectrum. 
Pliskin    : Is that something he learned from you? 
Stillman   : No, it was his own quirk. He wouldn't work by any rules except his own, and he followed them like a religion. And common sense  isn't one of his strong points. I thought I taught him  everything I knew... I have no children of my own, and I thought I found a son in him.  He had the right stuff, you know. There's something very unusual about an ability like that. Even at Indian Head, he got special treatment. Maybe that's what started all this. I didn't teach him the most important thing I had to tell him. There are some things you have to pass on. 
Pliskin    : The trick is to know which one. 
Stillman   : Right... All I taught him were skills. And now I have to stop him from using it to destroy us all. 
Pliskin    : Let's see how well that sensor works. 
Stillman   : Alright. I'm activating it, what. You see the green stuff on the radar? That's the visual representation of the C4 scent detected by the sensors. 
Raiden     : It's a pretty big area, isn't it? 
Pliskin    : Don't complain, it's better than nothing. 
Stillman   : Just activate the sensors and search the area, okay. 
Raiden     : Alright. 
Stillman   : Don't forget that you need the radio to use this. Log into the node in every strut and turn the radar on. 
Pliskin    : We have to keep out of the enemy's sights too. 
Raiden     : Because the radar gets knocked offline when were spotted? 
Stillman   : Exactly. Fatman allotted some C4 here on Strut C as well. 
Raiden     : Here? 
Stillman   : I know the layout of this facility and if he wants to take out the plant, where he would target 
Pliskin    : You know this for sure? 
Stillman   : Of course. I taught him the techniques. His ideas are based on my theories. Demolition is a kind of ideology and makes no exceptions to time or place. Big Shell consists of two hexagons end-on-end north to south. They should be backing C4 on each of the vertexes or the struts in this case. You need at least that to take a building of this integrity out. 
Pliskin    : Six on Shell 1. Another six on Shell 2. A total of twelve bombs at least. 
Stillman   : Considering this shell's architecture and composition from a engineering standpoint, that's my conclusion. And that is exactly what he would have decided as well. 
[Both Raiden and Pliskin take their Coolant Spray and Sensors.] 
Pliskin    : Kid, this place is all yours. I'll take care of Shell 2. 
Stillman   : Take this. 
[Stillman slides a keycard to Raiden.] 
Raiden     : What's this? 
Stillman   : Security cards issued to Shell personnel. The Big Shell security layout includes varying levels off limits. The clearance level is indicated by the number printed on these doors. Raiden, your cardkey can open doors of security level 1. Pliskin, your card can get you into level 3 areas. You need it to get next door to Shell 2. 
Raiden     : How did you get these? 
Stillman   : That engineer I told you about gave it to me. He was supposed to program a set of all access cards once we were on site. Unfortunately, this card won't get you into every area of this structure. 
Pliskin    : We'll have to deal with the remaining security lock-ups as they come up. Let's get going. 
[All of them start walking to the exit.] 
Pliskin    : You stay here. 
Stillman   : No, I'm going. 
Pliskin    : The two of us can handle it, don't worry. 
Stillman   : But... 
Pliskin    : You'll just slow us down with that leg of yours. There's a war going on here.  I don't have time to baby-sit any more. 
Raiden     : Why don't you just let us do all the grunt work. You can tell us what to do over the radio like in the original mission plan. 
[Stillman sits down on a stool.] 
Stillman   : Alright. I'll give you instructions from here. I may also need to prepare a back-up plan just in case. 
Raiden     : In case of what? 
Stillman   : Good luck to both of you. This is a dangerous one. 
Pliskin    : Who dares, wins. 
Stillman   : If anything comes up, let me know. My frequency is 140.15. 
Pliskin    : Good luck, kid. I'll see you later. 
[Pliskin starts walking out.] 
Pliskin    : Semper fi. 
[Pliskin leaves.  Raiden makes a move to follow.] 
Stillman   : That man is no SEAL. I don't even think he's a Navy man. 
Raiden     : What? 
Stillman   : Semper fi... Marine Corps talk. 
Flashbacks of the choppers from the beginning are shown. 
 
Raiden     : Is he one of the terrorists then? 
Stillman   : No, somehow I don't think so. If there is someone to suspect, I'd put my money on you. 
Raiden     : I'm... 
Stillman   : Just take care of those bombs for now. 
[Stillman stands and moves towards a small food pantry.] 
Raiden     : What about you? They could be back in this area soon. 
Stillman   : I'll hide out in this pantry for a while. If I lock the door it should be alright. Plenty of food in here too, so there's no need to worry about me. I'll give you instructions from Codec from here. Good luck. 
Stillman begins to close the pantry door. 
Stillman   : Bomb disposal is a face off with your own mortality. Don't let the fear get to you. When you give into the fear, the darkness comes. 
[Stillman slides the door closed.  Raiden begins to dispose of all the bombs.] 
Raiden     : Raiden here. I took care of the C4 in Strut C. The ceiling of the Women's Bathroom was set to blow. 
Stillman   : That's not like him... 
Raiden     : Anything wrong? 
Stillman   : Maybe. Pliskin's reported other locations too, and none of them are effective demolition points. 
Raiden     : What do you mean? 
Stillman   : It means that they wouldn't be the best places to choose if you wanted to destroy this place. 
Raiden     : Are you saying they don't plan on blowing the Shell up? 
Stillman   : It certainly seems that way. So far, we haven't seen anything but a waste of good explosives. Unless of course, we're missing something... 
Raiden     : A trap? 
Stillman   : He couldn't have overlooked the fact that I would be called into this. There's something going on. 
[Raiden contacts Stillman in Strut A.] 
Raiden     : This is Raiden. The C4 found in Strut A has been frozen and disposed of. Explosives were planted in the Pump Room on the first floor. 
Stillman   : This is all wrong. This is something only an amateur would do. All the bombs that have been found so far don't appear to be in the right kind of locations. And the quantity of explosives isn't sufficient either. 
Raiden     : Even Fatman can make mistakes, right? 
Stillman   : No. there's something else going on here... Get a move on with the disposal, Raiden. I've got a bad feeling about this. 
Raiden     : Do you think it's a trap? 
Stillman   : I don't know, but I'm going to tell Pliskin to watch his back too. Just hurry. 
[During his bomb disposal run, Raiden gets a call from Rose.] 
Rose       : Jack -- it must be so nerve-racking to defuse a bomb... 
Raiden     : Yeah, I'd say so. 
Rose       : OK, that was a stupid thing to say. Sorry. 
Raiden     : That's all right. It's just that I've never been trained in this stuff. 
Rose       : You okay? Are you feeling well? 
Raiden     : I almost threw up a few times. 
Rose       : Oh Jack... 
Raiden     : But I'm okay. It's not like I'm in this alone. 
Rose       : Oh -- yeah, that's true. What do you think about when you're defusing those things? 
Raiden     : I don't think so much as remember. And I know that I need to resist that, and keep my mind blank. I can't let myself be overwhelmed by the fear. 
Rose       : So, am I a part of what you try not to remember? 
Raiden     : ... 
Rose       : I was just kidding. But I guess this isn't a good time for that. 
Raiden     : No, it is. And I do think about you. I'm trying to remember what's so special about April 30th. 
Rose       : Any success? 
Raiden     : No, not yet. 
Rose       : You need to stay alive so you can. 
Raiden     : Okay, that's a deal. 
Rose       : Hey Jack? I bet bomb disposal's a lot like starting a relationship. 
Raiden     : Huh? What are you talking about? 
Rose       : Carefully dismantling emotional defenses, being on your toes constantly... you know? 
Raiden     : I guess. Neither of them are my strong point. 
Rose       : It's true that you're not the most patient man in the world. 
Raiden     : It's not that. I like to leave things as they are. 
Rose       : Are you afraid of what might be hidden inside? 
Raiden     : Not afraid, just -- unwilling... to deal with complications. 
Rose       : Like me? 
Raiden     : You're -- 
Rose       : Hey Jack? 
Raiden     : Yeah? 
Rose       : Do you know why I took this job? I wanted to see what you were really like. 
Raiden     : But we've been together a while. You know me already. 
Rose       : No -- you never let me in past a certain point. And I need to know what's there. 
Raiden     : ...Hahhhh. Are you trying to take me apart now? 
Rose       : Hey, it's not important. Good luck, Jack. 
[End transmission.]  
[On the EF Connecting Bridge Raiden gets a call from a mysterious person.] 
???        : Be careful! There are Claymore mines around there. 
Raiden     : Who is this! 
???        : Stealth-equipped Claymore mines, invisible to the naked eye. Use the mine detector. 
Raiden     : Identify yourself. 
 
Raiden     : Deepthroat? You mean from Shadow Moses? 
Deepthroat : Mr. X, then. 
Raiden     : Mr. X now, is it? Why would it matter if I called you Deepthroat? 
Mr. X      : Never mind about that. 
Raiden     : Why did you contact me? 
Mr. X      : Let's just say I'm one of your fans. 
[End transmission.  Raiden calls up the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, someone calling himself Mr. X just contacted me. Do you know anything about it? 
Colonel    : No -- and whoever it was, it wasn't a burst transmission. The transmission was sent from within the Big Shell. 
 
Colonel    : I caught that part too, but the possibility of it being true is none. Gray Fox was the one who used that alias in Shadow Moses, and he's dead. 
Raiden     : Is it an enemy trap? 
Colonel    : Could be. Exercise extreme caution.  
[Raiden approaches the Heliport on Strut E. He hears a woman talking to a man over the radio. The woman is Olga Gurlukovich (from the Tanker Chapter). The man is unidentified.] 
Man        : I've taken care of that annoying fly. What's the situation over there? 
Olga       : Puzzling. I saw a man dressed as a Ninja just now. 
Man        : Ninja? 
Olga       : It's the only way to describe it. A kind of Cyborg Ninja, complete with a sword. 
Man        : What? 
Olga       : Are you hiding something from me? 
Man        : Olga. Are you sure it wasn't a Arsenal Tengu? 
Olga       : Don't be a fool to think I wouldn't know the difference. I've never seen field gear like that ever. 
Man        : Alright, we'll intensify patrols. Anything else? 
Olga       : Actually, one more thing. You'll find it hard to believe though. I saw a man hiding under a cardboard box. 
Man        : Where? 
Olga       : On the connecting bridge to Shell 2. 
Man        : Hmm... 
Olga       : So you believe me this time? 
Man        : I've seen someone use that box trick before. We'll lay a trap on the Shell 2 connecting bridge. 
Olga       : Over and out then. 
[As Olga puts away her radio Raiden leaps out with his gun drawn.] 
Raiden     : Freeze! You must be one of Dead Cell. 
Olga       : Of course not. What a thing to say. 
Raiden     : Drop your gun! 
Olga       : Not a chance. 
[Olga leaps over the railing sideways.  Raiden rushes to the edge but sees nobody there.  He contacts Pliskin.] 
Raiden     : I saw a female soldier -- Russian. 
Pliskin    : Must be Olga Gurlukovich. 
Raiden     : How do you know? 
Pliskin    : Unlike you, I've been briefed. 
Raiden     : She's not a Dead Cell? 
Pliskin    : No, she commands a Russian private army. 
Raiden     : They must be the ones patrolling the Big Shell. 
Pliskin    : That's right. She's led the group ever since her old man, Colonel Gurlukovich, died. Watch yourself with her. She's a tough one. 
[Raiden freezes the bomb atop Strut E.] 
Raiden     : Raiden here. The C4 reported on the roof of Strut E has been taken care of. Explosives were planted on the Harrier 2 stationed on the roof. 
Stillman   : Good work. Only one more left to go... 
Pliskin    : This is Pliskin. Do you read me, Pete? 
Stillman   : I'm here. What's up? 
Pliskin    : Raiden, you need to hear this too. 
Raiden     : I'm listening. 
Pliskin    : I checked out the bottom of Strut H for you, Pete. 
Raiden     : Wait -- what's this about? 
Stillman   : I asked Pliskin to look around. Knowing Fatman, I can't shake the feeling that all the bombs so far were just wrong. 
Raiden     : So did you find anything? 
Pliskin    : A hell of a lot of C4's packed into the bottom of the strut. Pete called it right. 
Stillman   : I knew he had the real thing up his sleeve... 
Raiden     : So all the other ones were dummies? 
Stillman   : No, they're a threat all right, but the detonation wouldn't be enough to destroy the entire Shell. But the C4's Pliskin found would inflict serious structural damage. 
Pliskin    : That's not the bad news either. These are sensor-proof. 
Stillman   : What!? 
Pliskin    : New model, I guess. The ionization sensor can't detect them. The whole thing is sealed tight to prevent vapor leak, and there's no trace of that cologne signature. Pete, looks like he fooled you. 
Stillman   : Yes... 
Raiden     : But you managed to find the thing anyway? 
Pliskin    : It was sheer luck. 
Raiden     : Bombs that are invisible to the sensor... 
Pliskin    : Any ideas, Pete? 
Stillman   : Are there more out there? I'll go see for myself. 
Raiden     : You can't move fast enough. 
Pliskin    : He's right. I can try the spray from a distance. 
Stillman   : Hold on! There's something not right about this one, I can feel it. 
Pliskin    : Well, Pete? Should I come back and get you? 
Stillman   : No, there's no need. Raiden, you have one left to go, correct? 
Raiden     : Right -- except for those scentless ones. 
Stillman   : How about you, Pliskin? 
Pliskin    : I have two left not counting this one. 
Stillman   : OK... It'll have to be me. I have the level 4 card that'll get me into Shell 2 in any case. 
Raiden     : You'll never make it. With that bad leg of yours, they'll spot you for sure. 
Stillman   : That won't happen. I... I can walk just fine. I can even run... That bomb, five years ago. I messed up. Even with all my experience, I lost it. And a church was lost in the explosion.  All those kids playing nearby too... These past five years, I've lived a lie. 
Raiden     : Lied? 
Stillman   : Yes, lied. I didn't lose my leg in the explosion. So many dead -- all because of my mistake. All I could think about was hiding from the crime, shielding myself from the public outcry. I wanted people to be sorry for me, for my weakness... I faked being a victim myself because I couldn't bear to face the families of the real victims. This is no prosthetic. I can keep my footing on catwalks and hike over deserts. I lived my lie so well I haven't even answered to myself for my sins... It was supposed to be a shield. And it's become a shroud instead. I've killed my soul by playing the victim. Instead of protecting me, it's made my life even more hellish. 
Raiden     : What good can that do the victims? 
Stillman   : I know -- I'm a coward! 
Pliskin    : Hey, Pete... 
Stillman   : God forgive me... I can walk with my own two feet. And I need them to stop Fatman. His crimes are also mine -- one of omission, and arrogance. No one should teach the skills I taught him without a clear conscience. This is the only way I can defuse my own sins. 
Pliskin    : I get you, Pete. That one's all yours. You got it, Raiden? 
Raiden     : I understand. 
Pliskin    : Pete, I've taken care of guards in Struts G and H of Shell 2. I wouldn't recommend you go into any of the other struts. 
Stillman   : I owe you one. 
Pliskin    : I'll get back to freezing the baby bombs then. 
 
[Raiden defuses the last bomb.] 
Raiden     : I have the last C4 frozen. There's nothing showing up on the sensor now. 
Pliskin    : You're way ahead of me, kid. I still have one to go. How's your bomb, Peter? 
Stillman   : It's a bomb all right. Sealed C4, and in huge quantities... 
Raiden     : You think there's another one in Shell 1? 
Stillman   : For sure. Somewhere at the bottom of Strut A. 
Raiden     : Why are you so certain? 
Stillman   : If this bottom section of the strut is demolished, Shell 2 will be well on its way to destruction. 
Raiden     : You mean that Shell 2 will actually sink? 
Stillman   : Not immediately. There'll still be five struts left. But, if Shell 1 loses a strut at the same time, it'll be a very different story. The Big Shell's structural integrity depends on a very exact balance. If both Shells lose a strut each, the whole structure will tear itself apart under its own weight. 
Pliskin    : What do we do? 
Stillman   : I have a sensor that can locate even those scentless C4's. It makes combined use of a neutron scintillator and a hydrogen bomb detector. 
Raiden     : You brought that stuff with you? 
Stillman   : Of course. I made the calibrations while I was in the pantry. 
Raiden     : Does it work? 
Stillman   : I just tested it, and it definitely responds. But the best I can do is a sound beacon, not the radar. 
Raiden     : Sound? 
Stillman   : The shorter the interval between beacons, the closer the target. 
Raiden     : I get you. 
Stillman   : There's another one in that pantry I was in. You can go back and get it. 
Pliskin    : It's all yours, Raiden. 
Stillman   : I'm going to study it some more, and see if the freezing process will work. Don't touch the other one until I say so. 
Raiden     : OK. I'll standby until you radio in. 
[Raiden grabs the C4 sensor.] 
Raiden     : Peter, I have Sensor B. 
Stillman   : Good. Head to the bottom of Strut A. 
Raiden     : How's your invisible bomb? 
Stillman   : I'm looking at it, but I'm keeping my distance. How's Pliskin doing? 
Pliskin    : A few more minutes... I just got to the last strut, but there are a few enemy sentries I have to take care of. 
Raiden     : Does it look bad, Peter? 
Stillman   : Maybe. It's an odd one -- the detonator hasn't been activated. But the sensors are live... Which means... 
Pliskin    : This is Pliskin. I've located the last C4. 
Stillman   : Is that it!? 
Pliskin    : I'm about to freeze it. Then -- 
Stillman   : Wait! Pliskin! 
[Pliskin freezes the bomb.  Suddenly there is a beeping noise on Stillman's end.] 
Stillman   : Damn! That WAS it! The detonator just woke up. It's counting down! 
Raiden     : What happened!? 
Stillman   : The big ones were rigged to be activated when all the baby C4's went offline... Raiden, the one in Shell 1 should be counting down too. Hurry! 
Raiden     : What's the remaining time!? 
Stillman   : 300 seconds. 
Raiden     : 300 seconds? 
Stillman   : Raiden, move! Get to the bottom of Strut A now! 
[Raiden heads for the Deep Sea Dock.  On his way down he receives a call from Stillman.] 
Stillman   : Raiden, Pliskin, listen carefully. 
Stillman   : I fell for it. 
Raiden     : Fell for what? 
Stillman   : Fatman has my number. A proximity trigger. Microwave. 
Raiden     : Microwave? 
Stillman   : With a 7-foot range. It's not a technique I taught him. Neither was that multi-bomb booby trap. Looks like he's far surpassed me as far as explosives technique goes. As for the rest -- 
Pliskin    : Pete, get the hell out of there! 
Stillman   : There's less than 30 seconds left. It's too late. Pliskin, get away from Strut H, as fast as you can. 
Pliskin    : Pete -- 
Stillman   : Raiden, keep your distance. Use the spray from as far away as possible. You can do it. I know that. 
Raiden     : I'm not so sure... 
Stillman   : But I am. Do it, I know you can. 
[The bomb goes off.  Stillman screams as his line drops dead.] 
[Raiden reaches and defuses the final bomb.  He calls the Colonel] 
Raiden     : Colonel, I've neutralized the bomb. It was a great loss for everyone. 
Colonel    : Yes it was. 
Raiden     : Colonel, any damage report on the explosion? 
Colonel    : Seems that the duct for diverting the contaminated sea water was destroyed. And the central section of Shell 2 is flooding. The explosion's ignited the oil slick on the surface. 
Raiden     : What about the toxins? 
Colonel    : The chemicals stayed in containment. There's no immediate danger. 
Raiden     : Is the Big Shell stable? 
Colonel    : Shell 1 was unaffected. The price was high, but the threat of the bomb is over for now. 
Raiden     : What's the next objective? 
Colonel    : Rescue the President. Get back to the upper level. 
Raiden     : Roger that. 
[A few seconds later Raiden gets another call.] 
Raiden     : Raiden, the terrorists have retaliated for our bomb neutralization. 
Colonel    : A hostage has been killed -- shot in the head. They shot one of them on the roof, just to make sure we caught it. One of our satellites caught it, clear as day. 
Raiden     : Damn! 
Colonel    : They announced that they would kill one every hour from now on. 
Raiden     : What are my orders? What should I do? 
Colonel    : Stay with your mission objective. Rescue the President. 
Raiden     : What about the other hostages? 
Colonel    : President Johnson is your first priority. 
Raiden     : Priority my butt. They're all in danger! 
Rose       : Jack, be reasonable. I know what you're feeling, but you can't save them all. 
Raiden     : No, not by myself. 
Colonel    : Are you expecting that Pliskin to come through? 
Raiden     : Well... 
Colonel    : Looks like he's turned his radio off too. 
Raiden     : I can't complete this mission by myself. 
Colonel    : That man was not included in the simulation. He is not a factor in this mission. 
Raiden     : What do you mean by that, Colonel? 
Colonel    : Your mission must remain a solo effort. 
Raiden     : What about the SEALs? No second attempt? 
Colonel    : They haven't even gotten to planning that. All we can do is wait. In the meantime, you're our only hope. 
Raiden     : ...I understand. 
Colonel    : Raiden, go and rescue the President. You can start off by getting to the upper level of Strut A. 
[Raiden moves through the next door.  He can hear the sound of the elevator descending.  Out of the elevator steps Fortune with her rail gun.  She walks forward slowly.  On the floor a gathering of sea lice begins to split before her as she walks towards them.] 
Fortune    : I can't tell you how happy I am to see your alive after all. I knew this moment would come. Show yourself and finish me -- like you finished off my father. Otherwise you will be the one to die. 
[Fortune activates her rail cannon.] 
Raiden     : Oh crap. 
[Fortune shoots off a round towards Raiden.  He leaps to the side, barely avoiding the shot.  He rolls out to the side and draws his SOCOM and points it at Fortune.] 
Fortune    : That's not him. This could be -- interesting. You've seen the fires of hell -- haven't you? 
[The elevator door closes and it goes up, trapping Raiden down in the Deep  Sea Dock.] 
Fortune    : Maybe you can give me death. My name is Fortune. Lucky in war and nothing else. And without a death to call my own. Hurry. Kill me, please. 
[Fortune and Raiden battle.  Raiden tries to shoot but all his shots get deflected and miss their target.  Raiden is contacted by the Colonel after a long time of dodging her shots.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, Fatman just contacted us directly. 
Raiden     : Fatman called US? 
Colonel    : Yes. Looks like he placed a bomb on the heliport. He specifically asked for you, Raiden. 
Raiden     : What!? 
Colonel    : He's killed off Peter. Now he's after you. 
Raiden     : Why me? 
Colonel    : How should I know? 
Raiden     : Look. This is really not a good time for this. 
Colonel    : The countdown's already begun, Raiden! 
Raiden     : Great, how much time do I have left? 
Colonel    : I'll show you the count. There are 400 seconds remaining. 
Raiden     : So he's planning on taking this place out. 
Colonel    : It looks like he has a different agenda from that of Dead Cell. 
Raiden     : What about backup? 
Colonel    : None. There's no time. 
Raiden     : Which type of explosives is it? 
Colonel    : He didn't say. 
[End transmission.  The elevator descends as Raiden peers out from a crate.  When the doors open Vamp walks towards Fortune.] 
Vamp       : I'll take over Queen. It seems our friend Fatman is out of control. 
Fortune    : He'll actually try to destroy this place? 
Vamp       : Yes, this could unravel everything we planned. 
Fortune    : But why would he do such a thing? 
Vamp       : Who knows. But he nothing more than a stereotypical mad bomber now. He's completely lost sight of our ideals. And with it, his loyalty to Commander Jackson. 
Fortune    : Alright. I'll take care of the wayward soul. 
[Fortune lowers her weapon.] 
Fortune    : It wasn't him. 
Vamp       : Very unfortunate. 
Fortune    : I expected more of this one, really. 
Vamp       : So he couldn't kill you I see. 
Fortune    : Completely useless. 
Vamp       : Then he's all mine. 
Fortune    : Later, Vamp. 
[Raiden whirls from his hiding place.] 
Raiden     : Now! 
[He fires off three or four rounds at Fortune but they all veer off course. Two of the bullets hit Vamp.  One in the stomach and one in the head.  He falls backwards.  A startled Fortune catches him before he hits the ground.] 
Fortune    : ! 
[Raiden fires three more shots.  they all miss.] 
Raiden     : Damn! 
[Raiden moves back to his hiding place.] 
Fortune    : Vamp. Are you gone? No. No that bullet was meant for me... Why am I the only one that can't die? Alone again... Cheated out of death again... How long will you force me to live? How much longer dad? 
[Fortune starts to cry.] 
Fortune    : You've punished me enough. 
[Raiden slowly advances towards Fortune with his gun drawn.] 
Fortune    : I thought you could give me peace. But you couldn't kill me either. 
[Raiden moves past Fortune, never taking his gun or eyes off of her.  As Raiden steps in Fortune's tears roll off of her face and strike Vamp.  After Raiden has ascended Vamp lets out an icy breath.] 
Vamp       : There's no need for sorrow, Queen. 
Fortune    : ! 
Vamp       : I died once already. I cannot die twice. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 04)  Laugh and Grow Fat
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Raiden makes it to Strut E and defuses the bomb atop the heliport.] 
Fatman     : So your the one. You're right on time I see. I like a punctual man. 
[Raiden spins with his gun drawn.] 
Raiden     : Is he Dead Cell? 
Fatman     : I am Fatman. I am the greatest humanity has to offer and the lowest. 
[Ticking can be heard.] 
Fatman     : Can you hear it? Hear this rhythm? This is the rhythm of time -- and life! Don't you love the sound. I used to hang around department store clock counters. 
[Fatman pops out from behind a crate.  He has roller blades on and he is wearing a green bomb suit with leg guards.  He is holding a glass of red wine with a straw.] 
Fatman     : Life is short! Bombs tell the time with every moment of their existence and nothing else announces it's own end with such a fanfare. Glad you could make it -- the party is about to start. 
[Fatman sips at his wine.] 
Fatman     : Yum. Good year. Let's drink to Stillman -- shall we? 
Raiden     : If you destroy the Big Shell, you'll never get your ransom. 
Fatman     : Ransom? What are you talkin' about? 
Raiden     : Thirty billion dollars in cash. 
[Fatman bursts out laughing.] 
Raiden     : !? 
Fatman     : So that's what's going on? 
Raiden     : What the hell are you talking about? 
Fatman     : Oh, you'll know soon enough. And I could care less of what they plan to do. My ambitions are much more simple. To be the most famous bomber of them all. 
Raiden     : Your nuts, nobody is gonna give a damn about you. 
Fatman     : Oh yes they will. I'll go down in history -- as the man who beat Peter Stillman. That's the only reason I existed. 
Raiden     : Like hell you beat Stillman, he had your number. 
Fatman     : What did you say? 
Raiden     : You had nothing of his courage. 
[Fatman laughs.] 
Raiden     : What are you laughing at? 
Fatman     : That crock died a dishonorable death. Six months ago... 
Raiden     : Six months ago... The liquidation of Dead Cell. 
Fatman     : Call it what you want. Only the right stuff survived that hell. Set me free you know... Opened my way to a new dimension. So I can become the Emperor among detonation devotees! 
Raiden     : Your nothing but a common criminal and that's the only way people will remember you. 
[Fatman chucks his wine glass on the ground.  It shatters.  Fatman throw up his arms. 
Fatman     : How dare you! I'm an artist. 
[Fatman moves behind a storage container.] 
 
[Raiden disables the bombs quickly and manages to wound the bomber.  Fatman collapses to the ground.  When Raiden reaches him blood is starting to seep through the chest of his bomb suit.] 
Fatman     : My suit... Oh, no... I've nothing to wear to the party... 
Raiden     : The party is over for you. 
Fatman     : That's what you think... 
Raiden     : What do you mean? 
[Fatman pulls out a small black device and pushes a button on it.  A beeping noise is heard.  Raiden grabs the black device.] 
Raiden     : What did you just do? What is this!? 
Fatman     : I have beautiful hands. These delicate hands can craft works of art. 
[Raiden tears off the face shield of Fatman's bomb suit.] 
Raiden     : Answer me, what the hell is this! 
Fatman     : This is the switch for the biggest bomb in the entire place. 
Raiden     : Huh? 
[Raiden tosses the switch to the side and aims his gun at it.] 
Fatman     : It's no use -- once it's activate there's no stopping the count. 
Raiden     : Where did you plant it? Where is it!? 
Fatman     : Somewhere in this area... Don't worry, it's very close by. 
Raiden     : Where is it!? 
Fatman     : Go ahead, shoot me -- I'm already dead. 
Raiden     : Damn! 
Fatman     : Think you can find it? When it goes off it'll take the Big Shell with it. 
Raiden     : Tell me where I can find the bomb! 
 
[Fatman dies.  Raiden lifts up Fatman's body to find the last bomb.  He quickly freezes it.  The Colonel calls him up.] 
Colonel    : Good work, Raiden. Looks like all the bombs are neutralized. One of their main leverages is now gone. That leaves -- 
Raiden     : Colonel, Fatman didn't seem to know about the ransom demands. 
Colonel    : Intentionally kept in the dark, I'd say. He seemed to be coming from a very different place from the other terrorists. Raiden, a lot of hostages -- our President included -- are still in danger. Keep your mind focused on protecting them. 
Raiden     : ... What are my orders? 
Colonel    : Rescue the President. 
Raiden     : We have no idea where he is. 
Colonel    : You haven't been in the central core yet. I suggest you start there. 
Raiden     : Wait, I have another call. Want me to take it? 
Colonel    : No, I'll go offline. Best to keep our presence unknown. 
[Pliskin is on the other line.] 
Pliskin    : How're you doing, kid? 
Raiden     : Pliskin!? Is everything all right? 
Colonel    : Could be better. Looks like I was out cold for a while. 
Raiden     : How did you manage to stay alive? 
Pliskin    : Had a little help from a friend. 
Raiden     : Friend? 
Pliskin    : What about the bomb? 
Raiden     : Defused. And Fatman too. 
Pliskin    : That's good news. 
Raiden     : How's Shell 2? 
Pliskin    : It's a mess. The bomb crippled H Strut. 
Raiden     : What about the toxins? 
Pliskin    : The what? 
Raiden     : If the Big Shell blows up, the explosion is expected to produce massive amounts of toxins... 
Pliskin    : I've never heard anything about that. 
Raiden     : Well, looks like there's not much danger of that in any case. 
Pliskin    : But the central core is starting to flood. It won't last much longer. 
Raiden     : What about the President and the other hostages? 
Pliskin    : They weren't in Shell 2. They must be in Shell 1. 
Raiden     : We need to get the hostages out of here now. 
Pliskin    : It's too far from Manhattan for a swim. 
Raiden     : What about the lifeboats? 
Pliskin    : There doesn't seem to be any. Doesn't make sense. 
Raiden     : So a chopper is our only extraction? 
Pliskin    : Right. And it comes with a passenger limit. Intel has it that there are about thirty hostages. 
Raiden     : It'd take more than a single trip. 
Pliskin    : We'll have to come back. 
Raiden     : Can you pilot a chopper? 
Pliskin    : No, but I brought a gearhead with me. He's a good guy. I'll introduce you later. 
Raiden     : Pliskin, I'm on the heliport right now, but I don't see their Harrier. It's out somewhere. 
Pliskin    : We'd better move now then. Our chances with a Harrier after us are close to nothing. 
Raiden     : Do you know where the President is? 
Pliskin    : No. That one's all yours. 
Raiden     : The President is at the top of our rescue list. These are our orders, Lieutenant J.G. 
Pliskin    : Your orders. Not mine. See you later, kid. 
[End transmission.  As Raiden exits the heliport a ninja pops out from nowhere.  He looks very similar to Grey Fox in MGS but his suit is colored differently.] 
Ninja      : You passed with flying colors. 
[Raiden whips out his gun.] 
Raiden     : Identify yourself. 
[The Ninja draws his sword.] 
Ninja      : I'm like you...I have no name. 
Raiden     : Are you Mr. X? 
Ninja      : Hmm...if you like. 
[Mr. X puts his sword back in it's sheath.] 
Mr. X      : But come, let's get out of the open. Follow me. 
[They walk to the edge of the strut, which is slightly enclosed.] 
Raiden     : Are you with FOXHOUND too? 
Mr. X      : Neither enemy nor friend. Just a messenger from the La-li-lu-le-lo. 
[Mr. X taps his helmet.  He contacts Raiden over the Codec.] 
Mr. X      : This is safer, I think. 
Raiden     : Safe from what? 
Mr. X      : Eavesdropping, of course. 
Raiden     : All right -- why did you contact me? 
Mr. X      : I've been ordered to give you backup, including the relaying of necessary intel. 
Raiden     : Ordered by whom? Why won't you identify yourself? 
Mr. X      : There is no need for you to know. 
Raiden     : I'll decide whether I need to know. 
Mr. X      : You are not yet trusted to make such decisions. I'll tell you something you do need to know, instead. The current location of the President. Or rather, the person who knows the current location of the President. 
Raiden     : Who is it? 
Mr. X      : A Secret Service agent named Ames, currently being held with the other hostages. 
Raiden     : Secret Service, huh. 
Mr. X      : The head of the President's security detail. Ames has been fitted with the same type of VIP nanomachine system as the President. If you're within range, you should be able to communicate. 
Raiden     : Why are you telling me this? 
Mr. X      : Do I need to repeat myself? 
Raiden     : There's no reason for me to believe any of this. You understand that? 
Mr. X      : Of course. But you also have no choice but to believe. 
Raiden     : Do you have any other leads? ...Where are those hostages? 
Mr. X      : Ha ha ha ha. 
[A room with about 30 or so hostages is shown.] 
Mr. X      : The hostages are being held in B1 Conference Room in the Shell 1 Core. You'll find him in there. 
Raiden     : What does he look like? 
 
Raiden     : How am I supposed to look for someone without even a description? 
Mr. X      : Use your ears. 
Raiden     : What's that supposed to mean? 
Mr. X      : Ames has a pacemaker. You'll be able to hear the machine's sound in a heartbeat. 
Raiden     : You expect me to walk up to every one of these hostages and listen to their heartbeats? 
Mr. X      : The sounds are too minute to be hear unamplified -- you'll be captured immediately. 
Raiden     : So what am I supposed to do? 
Mr. X      : Use a directional microphone. There's one somewhere in the core. 
[Mr. X hands Raiden a keycard.] 
Mr. X      : Take this. This security card will unlock all the level 3 security doors including those in the Shell 1 core. It's called a PAN card. It works together with your body's own electrical field. And watch yourself. The Core is more heavily guarded than any other section of the Big Shell. You'll get nowhere dressed like that. Try this instead... 
[Mr. X throws Raiden a terrorist BDU.] 
Raiden     : One of the terrorists? 
Mr. X      : The surveillance camera won't let you on the elevator without the right uniform. 
Raiden     : You want me to disguise myself? 
Mr. X      : Men assigned to the Core and other areas are given different color uniforms. The uniform alone won't get you in there. 
Raiden     : Your talking about weapons. 
Mr. X      : Yes, you need a AK. 
Raiden     : But I saw them carrying AN94's. 
Mr. X      : All men assigned to the core section are carrying AK's. 
Raiden     : So without a AKs-74u someone will see through me really quickly. 
Mr. X      : You can take care of the weapon part yourself. One more thing... 
Raiden     : There's more? 
Mr. X      : You'll also have to pass a retinal scan to get into the conference hall. 
[The retina scanner is shown.] 
Raiden     : Biometrics. Crap. 
Mr. X      : Nothing but the real thing will suffice. Deception is not an option. 
[Codec screen.] 
Mr. X      : I suggest you hurry. They have the nuke on their side. 
Raiden     : The nuke!? They have a nuclear weapon WITH them? 
Mr. X      : You didn't find their continuing presence here unusual? Even with the President as hostage, this is an island -- and they have no visible means of escape... 
Raiden     : Even if they do have a nuke, the warhead is no good without an access code. The security lockout can't be bypassed... 
Mr. X      : They don't need to. They have the code. 
[Picture of the dead Navy captain and the black briefcase.] 
Mr. X      : You saw it too I believe -- the Navy man with half a handcuff. The other half was attached to the football, or the black case if you like. The nuclear button, and now they have it. 
[Codec Screen.] 
Raiden     : Why did they have to bring the football along? To a decontamination plant, of all places. 
Mr. X      : But they did have to. Because, after all, the Big Shell is the farthest thing from a cleanup plant there is. Dead Cell didn't have to bring a nuke along with them. It was right here to begin with. Nothing in this affair is what it seems. 
Raiden     : A cover-up -- but why? For what? 
Mr. X      : For Metal Gear, that is housed here. 
[Quick pictures of Metal Gear Ray are shown.] 
Raiden     : Metal Gear!? 
Mr. X      : The very same. Bipedal nuclear-capable vehicle of Shadow Moses infamy. This place is the R&D center for it's newest incarnation. 
Raiden     : What the hell is going on? 
Mr. X      : Better ask Ames the rest. 
[Mr. X hands Raiden a phone.] 
Raiden     : What's this for? 
Mr. X      : You might be glad you have it. Keep the controller vibration function on. 
[Raiden looks down at the phone.] 
Raiden     : What would I need a cell phone for? 
[When Raiden looks up Mr. x is gone.  He quickly contacts the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, who was that man just now? 
Colonel    : He's not one of ours. No -- we have no one like that in our unit. 
Raiden     : He said that the Big Shell was housing a new model of Metal Gear. 
Colonel    : First I've heard of it. 
Raiden     : Colonel, what are you not telling me? 
Colonel    : I've been completely open with you, Raiden. I've told you everything. 
Raiden     : Is that everything you know -- or everything I need to know? 
Colonel    : Snap out of it, Raiden! I'll have the Metal Gear rumor looked into. You need to make contact with this Ames. 
Raiden     : So you believe that Ninja? 
Colonel    : Since we have no leads on the President's current location, we have no other alternatives. Right now, collect as much data as you can, including anything on Metal Gear. 
Raiden     : Are those my orders. 
Colonel    : Yes they are. Disguise yourself as an enemy soldier and infiltrate the Shell 1 Core. 
Raiden     : Understood. 
[Raiden finds an AK and makes his way into the Shell 1 Core.  He passes the retinal scan by capturing an enemy soldier and have him use the device.] 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 05)  Is that really Solid Snake?
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[As Raiden enters we can see that the room is filled with men and women in business suits and various formal attire.  There is a guard patrolling as Raiden makes his way down the stairs.  When he reaches the bottom he is contacted by the Colonel.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, one of those hostages in there is Ames. The only thing we know is that Ames wears a pacemaker. His heartbeat should sound different from other people's, so use the directional microphone to locate him. Once you recognize Ames by his heartbeat, keep the microphone pointed toward him. Then push the Action Button and call out to him. If it really is Ames, he should respond in some way. 
Raiden     : What if it's the wrong person? 
Colonel    : The guards may get suspicious and come running instead. Security could get tighter too. 
Rose       : Try to be sure before you take the risk. 
Colonel    : Don't call out to a hostage with the Action button until you're fairly sure that it's Ames. If you do make a mistake, switch the microphone for an AK and get out of there before a guard gets suspicious. If you're discovered inside, they'll cut off your retreat and call in the reinforcements. You won't make it out of the room. The mission will be over if your discovered.  Don your disguise and look for Ames while deflecting the enemy's suspicion. 
[Raiden finds Ames with the microphone and he kneels down to him and whispers to him.] 
Raiden     : You must be Ames. Keep still and listen to me. I'm not a terrorist. I got in here using one of their uniforms. I'm taking off the tape, stay quiet. 
[Raiden rips the tape off Ames' mouth.] 
Ames       : Who told you about me? 
Raiden     : An informant calling himself Mr. X, dressed as a Ninja. 
Ames       : I see. Take this thing off me, will you? 
[Raiden takes the tape off of Ame's eyes.] 
Ames       : I'm Richard Ames. 
Raiden     : Secret service? 
Ames       : No, I was sent in by the la-li-lu-le-lo, just like you. 
Raiden     : What? 
[Revolver Ocelot watches this scene from a security center.  He snorts in disgust.] 
Ames       : Your here to find out where the President is. We have little time so I'll be brief. How about switching to nanocommunications first? 
Raiden     : Nanocommunications? 
Ames       : Right, silence beats talk when it comes to safety. 
[Ames and Raiden converse on the Codec.] 
Ames       : Are you on? 
Raiden     : Right here. Do you really know where the President is? 
Ames       : Almost certainly. He was moved to the first floor of Shell 2's core section. 
Raiden     : The first floor, the core of Shell 2... Is he still there? 
Ames       : I don't know. I can't get a response. 
Raiden     : You don't think he's been -- like the other hostages...? A hostage was killed in retaliation after the SEAL 10 disaster,  remember? 
Ames       : What are you talking about? Regardless of what they do to other hostages, they won't touch the President. 
Raiden     : What makes you so sure? 
Ames       : The case. 
Raiden     : You mean the nuclear button they took? 
Ames       : Right. And the case won't do a thing by itself. That case may be the single most advanced example of a weapons fail-safe system. The password is nothing less than the physiological data of the U.S. President. 
Raiden     : Physiological data? 
Ames       : The President's own vital signs -- heartbeat, brainwave pattern, blood pressure and so on -- are constantly monitored and relayed by his internal nanomachines. This information along with the DNA pattern serve as a biometric password, unbreakable even by the latest parallel processor supercomputers. The password entry itself cannot be performed unless brainwave patterns and heartbeats fall within normal parameters, rendering chemical and other forms of coercion impractical. 
Raiden     : In other words, the login must be made of the President's own free will. 
Ames       : As a fail-safe, the input must also be reconfirmed hourly, even  after the initial login. If a valid confirmation is not forthcoming, the system will automatically cancel the login. 
Raiden     : And that's why they can't harm the President... 
Ames       : -- at least until the bird flies. 
Raiden     : Is there really a new model of Metal Gear here? 
Ames       : Absolutely. The Black Case serves as the launch key to Metal Gear as well. 
Raiden     : Why would they hide a Metal Gear in an offshore plant? 
Ames       : ...Haven't they told you anything? The entire thing was planned -- the oil spill, the tanker accident that caused it, everything. The Big Shell was built specifically for the development of a new Metal Gear model. The inspection tour was to check its progress... 
Raiden     : What's going on around here... 
Ames       : Wait! 
[There is movement in a room to the back of the room.] 
Ames       : Here comes Snake. 
Raiden     : That's him? 
Ames       : Use the microphone to listen in. 
[Raiden takes out his microphone and points it in direction of the room.] 
Ocelot     : King, Fatman is dead. 
Snake      : It doesn't matter -- saved us the trouble of getting rid of him ourselves. 
Ocelot     : Why did he betray us... 
Snake      : There a band of lunatics to begin with. Nothing they do should come as a surprise. 
Ocelot     : I'll have his background checked just in case. 
Snake      : You think he was working for them? 
Ocelot     : We can't discount the possibility -- especially with that intruder still at large. 
Snake      : Yes... The man in the Sneaking Suit. 
Ocelot     : You know more about those suits then I do. 
Snake      : But FOXHOUND was disbanded 4 years ago. So it must be -- the Patriots. What about the damage to Shell 2? 
Ocelot     : The circulation system for the contaminated water has been damaged. The water being drawn in is overflowing and the lower block of the central section is flooding. 
Snake      : Seal the connecting pathway Shells 1 and 2. 
Ocelot     : The SEMTEX and IR sensors are already in place. 
Snake      : Any effect on...it? 
Ocelot     : No. 
Snake      : What about the President? 
Ocelot     : The password entry has already been made to the black case. In one hour we'll need a confirmation from him. His work is done after that. 
Snake      : Make sure you keep him alive until then. 
Ocelot     : Yes, I know. 
Snake      : What about the unit's activation? 
Ocelot     : Almost complete. The code has already been input. All we need now is for the girl to start the system. 
Snake      : The usual method I assume? 
Ocelot     : No...the drugs took care of everything... 
Snake      : Hmm...only a few more steps to Outer Heaven. 
[Olga walks in.  She stops in front of Ocelot.] 
Olga       : Who is that Ninja, Shalashaska? 
Ocelot     : I cannot even guess. 
Olga       : What about you? 
Snake      : I'm having the matter looked into. 
Ocelot     : Olga, don't carry suspicion where it isn't due. 
Olga       : Where it isn't do? When you watched my father die and did nothing. 
Ocelot     : It's been two years ago, Olga. Let it go. 
Olga       : I have the case file for Shadow Moses, by the way. 
Ocelot     : Olga, how could you suspect me? 
Olga       : I know that the Ninja is not one of my men. 
Ocelot     : How meaningful you make that sound. Of Sergei were still alive... 
Olga       : If the old man were still alive I wouldn't need to take orders from you! 
Ocelot     : Olga, Sergei was my best friend. 
[Olga whips out her pistol and points it at Ocelot.  Ocelot does likewise.] 
Olga       : If you sell us out, I'll kill you myself! 
Ocelot     : Listen daughter of Sergei. Don't ever let me see your gun pointed at me again! 
Olga       : If you wish. I'll put a bullet in your back instead. 
[Olga puts her gun away. ocelot does likewise after twirling his gun a bit.] 
Snake      : Enough! I let you both in when no one else would. You think any government would have you two as irregulars in this political climate? The worst kind of wetworks maybe -- but even that's doubtful. I recommend against switching camps. You've nowhere left to go. 
[Olga spins on her heel and leaves the room.  Ocelot's arm begins to twitch.] 
Ocelot     : U-ughh! 
Snake      : It's happening again? 
Ocelot     : This damn right arm -- Liquid! It's almost as if it's having it's revenge. 
Snake      : How much do you think we spent on that arm in Leyon?  The best transplant surgery team in the world. 
Ocelot     : I never trust a Frenchman. 
[Ocelot shocks his arm with a device.] 
Ocelot     : There's something going on. The incidents are becoming more frequent. Maybe that man's presence... 
Snake      : Ocelot, I leave this place in your hands. I have the intruder to take care of. 
Ocelot     : Yes, King. 
[Snake exits the room.  Raiden lowers his microphone.] 
Raiden     : Is that really, Solid Snake? 
Ames       : That's what he claims. 
Raiden     : I thought Snake was dead. 
Ames       : Solid Snake did die. But he's also here in the Shell. Either he survived or there is two of them. 
Raiden     : Two of them? 
Ames       : And that's impossible. 
[Codec screen.] 
Ames       : Anyway, what did you manage to catch? 
Raiden     : They said password input was complete... 
Ames       : I thought so... 
Raiden     : You said the password entry into the Black Case had to be made by the President willingly. 
Ames       : That's right. 
Raiden     : So this means the President is cooperating with them? 
Ames       : It would have to be, yes. Probably tired of being a puppet. But it wasn't a smart move to betray us... 
Raiden     : ...a puppet? 
Ames       : We're running out of time. They WILL fire a nuke. You know what you need to do before then. 
Raiden     : Fire the nuke? But it's nowhere close to the ransom deadline. 
Ames       : Ransom? 
Raiden     : Thirty billion dollars in cash... 
Ames       : What are you babbling about! The nuclear strike is not a threat -- it's been the objective all along! 
Raiden     : They plan to slaughter millions of people!? 
Ames       : No -- a high-altitude detonation. You've heard of the Compton Effect? 
Raiden     : The total disruption of electronic equipment caused by EMMA pulse. 
Ames       : Textbook answer. Well, when an average nuclear warhead goes off within the atmosphere, the result is an electromagnetic pulse of up to 50 billion megawatts. The EMMA field can reach tens of thousands of volts per meter, and most electronic equipment will be toast in an instant. 
Raiden     : If one of the key movers of world economy stops functioning, it could mean the beginning of a global depression. 
 
 
Ames       : Damn, Ocelot is coming! I'm going offline. 
[Ocelot is approaching from the room in the back.] 
Ames       : Search my pocket. Hurry! 
[Raiden grabs a keycard out of Ame's pocket. 
Ames       : It's a security card. You'll be able to unlock doors of up to level 3 security. Use it to get to Shell 2. Take care of the President before they launch the nuke.  He's coming! Pick up your AK! 
[Raiden does as Ocelot arrives.] 
Ocelot     : What do you think you're doing? 
Ames       : I asked him to remove these. I'm ill, you see. 
Ocelot     : I always knew the DIA turned out second-rate liars. 
Ames       : What are you talking about? 
Ocelot     : No need for denials. You know what you are -- Colonel Ames. They knew that the President was planning to betray them, so they sent you in to keep tabs on him.  Am I right? 
Ames       : You --! 
[Ocelot takes out his revolver and points it at Ames' head.] 
Ocelot     : Sorry Colonel, you failed to carry out your duties. 
Ames       : You'll never escape the La-li-lu-le-lo! 
Ocelot     : Is that so? 
[Ames suddenly gets to his knees and advances in a panic towards Ocelot.] 
Ocelot     : What the... 
Ames       : You -- you tricked me... I understand now. Ocelot you're -- 
[Ames collapses to the ground, dead.  Ocelot then turns his Revolver to Raiden.] 
Ocelot     : You, which team are you with? Show me your face! 
[Some soldiers gather and point their guns at Raiden.] 
Ocelot     : You know who he is? 
Soldier    : No, he is not one of mine. 
Ocelot     : Identify yourself! 
[One of the soldiers pulls off Raiden's mask.] 
Ocelot     : We meet at last. 
[Mr. X suddenly drops down from the ceiling.  He swings his sword down to cut off Ocelot's arm but Ocelot dodges the blow.  Some of the soldiers fire at Mr. X.  He deftly deflects all the bullets sent his way.  Some of the deflected bullets strike the hostages.  He begins to cover Raiden's escape route.] 
Ocelot     : Hold you fire! We need the hostages alive. 
Mr. X      : Hurry, get away! 
Ocelot     : You! But you died! 
[Raiden is heading up the stairs when some of the guards whirl around to fire at Raiden.  Mr. X leaps in and blocks the bullets for Raiden.] 
Mr. X      : Leave this to me. 
[Raiden leaves the hostage room and the entire Shell 1 Core is on Red Alert looking for him.  He contacts the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, Ames is dead. Looked like a heart attack. 
Colonel    : Hm, that's unfortunate. However, we do at least know where the President is. 
Raiden     : So there really is a new type of Metal Gear in this place? 
Colonel    : Apparently. We're still looking into it... 
Raiden     : I've also been told that the nuclear strike was what the  terrorists were after from the start. NOT the thirty billion dollars! 
Colonel    : Chri--, it was a cover-up all along... 
Raiden     : Colonel! What are you keeping from me! 
Colonel    : I am not keeping back anything! It's not as though I'm told all the facts either! I'm pulling in all the favors I can to look into all this. Just be a little patient.  Our priority should be with the President right now. We can take it that they've completed the password entry and are preparing Metal Gear for nuclear strike. Get to the President as soon as possible. 
Raiden     : But the President is cooperating with them -- 
Colonel    : According to Ames, yes. But it's also true that they're about to get rid of the President. There's something else going on here, and the President may be able to tell you what it is when you see him in person. Once they get the confirmation for nuclear launch, they'll do it. You need to rescue the President before then. 
Rose       : Jack, I agree with the Colonel. You need to protect the President for now. 
Raiden     : All right... 
[End transmission.] 
[Raiden makes it to the Shell 1-2 Connecting Bridge.  He is contacted by Pliskin.] 
Pliskin    : Raiden, can you hear me? 
Raiden     : Pliskin? Where have you been? 
Pliskin    : Checking around. I'm in Strut H right now. How's the situation over there? 
Raiden     : We have a lead on the President's location. 
Pliskin    : Where is he? 
Raiden     : Shell 2 Core, the first floor. 
Pliskin    : I'm cut off from the core where I am. It's a mess here. 
Raiden     : All right. I'm on my way to Shell 2 right now. 
Pliskin    : There are IR sensors in place on the connecting bridge between Shells 1 and 2. If you break the beams, the Semtex will go off. 
Raiden     : Yeah, I heard them talking about that. 
Pliskin    : Target the control units and destroy them. Make sure you don't shoot the Semtex. 
Raiden     : What do the control units look like? 
Pliskin    : Take a look with your binoculars. 
[Raiden looks with his binoculars.] 
Raiden     : That's the Semtex... And that must be the control unit. 
[Raiden snipes all of the control units.  As he is walking across the bridge he gets a call from Pliskin.] 
Pliskin    : Raiden, I found us a ride. 
Raiden     : I'm all ears. 
Pliskin    : One of the enemy's Kasatkas. 
Raiden     : Is it in good shape? 
Pliskin    : Full tank. I'm heading for Shell 1 now. What about that Harrier? 
Raiden     : It's not on the heliport here. 
Pliskin    : Good. I'll set this one down there then. 
Raiden     : Can you cover the hostages? They're being held on level B1 in the core. Pliskin, you didn't happen to find any other places where hostages were being held, did you? 
Pliskin    : No -- nothing like that. 
Raiden     : OK... 
Pliskin    : How many hostages are there? 
Raiden     : There's a few short of thirty. One dead, and several wounded. 
Pliskin    : The Kasatka's cargo area will hold thirteen max. 
Raiden     : What about the other Kasatka? 
Pliskin    : I sabotaged it. It can't come after us if it can't get off the ground. We'll have to make two trips. 
Raiden     : Can you fly a Kasatka? 
Pliskin    : I have a pilot who's flown the civilian model, the KA-62, in VR. There's not a whole lot of difference between the military KA-60 and the civilian model. 
???        : Cleared for takeoff! 
Pliskin    : Raiden, let me introduce you to my partner -- Otacon. 
Raiden     : Otacon? 
Otacon     : Hey, Raiden. Nice to meet you. 
Pliskin    : Raiden, I'll talk to you later. 
[Raiden calls the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, I need some answers from you. Who exactly is Pliskin and his partner? 
Colonel    : I know what you're thinking. 
Raiden     : It keeps coming back to Shadow Moses. And now this Otacon... 
Rose       : A.k.a. Hal Emmerich, Ph.D. A Shadow Moses survivor. Snake and Otacon both became fugitives after Shadow Moses, wanted for acts of terrorism. 
Raiden     : An anti-Metal Gear organization... 
Rose       : They sabotaged and destroyed countless Metal Gear units throughout the world... And were responsible for the incident two years ago that necessitated the construction of the Big Shell. 
Raiden     : Snake and his partner aren't terrorists. 
Rose       : Jack, why are you defending them? 
Raiden     : I look back on what I've done here so far and things like training and sense of duty alone won't get you through a sneaking mission like this. 
Rose       : Jack, are you okay? 
Raiden     : You need something -- higher. I can't think of the right word, but...it has to be pure will, backed up by -- by courage, or ideals, or something like that. I'd stake my life on it. The Solid Snake that saved Shadow Moses couldn't turn into a terrorist. 
Colonel    : Maybe that's true, but they went down with that tanker two years ago. We even recovered Snake's body. And the DNA test results on the body say it's him. 
Rose       : Jack, I know what you're saying, but Snake is dead. He can't be here, not even as this Dr. Hal Emmerich. 
Raiden     : But that also means that he can't be the terrorist leader behind this thing! 
[End transmission.  Raiden hears a chopper flying overhead.  He turns and sees Pliskin in the cargo area of the Kasatka.  Pliskin waves to Raiden and the chopper flies off the heliport on Strut E.  Raiden continues on but he spots a man leaning against the wall in a long black cape.] 
Caped Man  : I've been waiting for you. A messenger -- from the Patriots! 
[He looks at Raiden.] 
Caped Man  : Where do I know you from... 
Raiden     : So your the boss around here? 
Caped Man  : No, not just around here. I'm the boss to surpass Big Boss himself. 
[He stands straighter.] 
Caped Man  : Solid Snake. 
[Pliskin yells from the chopper, which has come back to the bridge.] 
Pliskin    : No! That is not Solid Snake! 
Snake      : What a pleasant surprise -- brother. 
Pliskin    : Save it, your no brother of mine. 
Snake      : Don't say you've forgotten me -- Snake. 
[The man in the cape steps forward.] 
Raiden     : Snake? 
Pliskin    : Raiden, take cover! 
[Snake unloads a clip at the man.  One of the bullets hits the Semtex and it detonates.  In the explosion the man dashes forward as his cape burns from the heat.  He is wearing a full body exoskeleton.] 
Pliskin    : Stop impersonating him! 
[Pliskin fires more shots but they all get deflected by the man in the exoskeleton.] 
Solidus    : Brother, I'm a whole different game from Liquid! HRRRRR!! 
[The man's muscles grow inside the exoskeleton.] 
Solidus    : GHHHH!! 
[Pliskin loads and fires a grenade at Solidus.  Solidus leaps into the air and lands on a pipe that is carrying some liquids between the shells.] 
Solidus    : Is that the best you can do, Snake? 
[Pliskin fires another grenade.  This time it finds its mark.  Solidus is thrown off of the pipe and drops down below.] 
Pliskin    : Did I get him!? 
[Pliskin looks below but he sees a Harrier 2 hovering with Solidus standing atop it.  Vamp is piloting.] 
Pliskin    : Otacon, were in trouble! It's the Harrier! 
[As Solidus gets inside the cockpit of the Harrier the Kasatka flies off.] 
Solidus    : The world needs only one Big Boss!  I'll drown you fools for interfering! 
[The Harrier fires two missiles at either end of the bridge, sealing off any exit for Raiden.  the Kasatka comes back into view.] 
Pliskin    : Raiden, this is the Stinger Missile launcher. The Katsaka can't stand up to the Harrier. You have to shoot the Harrier down. 
[The Harrier comes into view.] 
Otacon     : Snake, we got company! 
Pliskin    : I'm counting on you! 
[Raiden shoots down the Harrier promptly.  It starts to become unstable and it loses altitude very quickly.  It crashes into the Connecting Bridge and takes a large bit of it out.  As the Harrier falls towards the water Solidus has a wound on his eye.  It appears to be lost.  Pliskin spots something rushing towards the surface.] 
Pliskin    : There's something coming up! 
[Metal Gear Ray leaps out of the water and cleanly grabs the falling Harrier jet.] 
Raiden     : It's Metal Gear!? It's already active! 
[Ray falls back to the water.  it fires off some rocket clusters that rain down all around the area.  One of the rockets hits the Kasatka and it starts to bleed out some smoke.  One of them hits close to Raiden and he is knocked aside and has to dangle on a narrow railing.  The Kasatka lands on the heliport safely and Raiden begins to haul himself up.] 
[Inside the broken Harrier Solidus checks his eye.] 
Solidus    : They got my eye! 
[Vamp slowly stands up.] 
Solidus    : Vamp -- go! 
[Vamp leaps into the water and begins to run across the surface.] 
Otacon     : Hey, what's that -- ? 
Pliskin    : It's running on water... 
[Raiden and Pliskin and Otacon watch Vamp run across the water and then up the side of one of the struts.  Raiden gets a call from Pliskin.] 
Pliskin    : Raiden, you all right? 
Raiden     : Yeah. How about you guys? 
Pliskin    : Barely managed, but we're all right. 
Raiden     : The chopper? 
Pliskin    : We need some time for repairs. 
Raiden     : Oh... 
Pliskin    : The President's all yours. 
Raiden     : OK... Can I ask you something? Are you THE Snake? They said you were dead... 
Snake      : No, not me. There are still too many things I need to do. 
Raiden     : Snake, you're a legend -- and that's why I need to ask you this. 
Snake      : Legend? A legend is nothing but fiction. Someone tells it, someone else remembers, everybody passes it on. 
Raiden     : I'm here because I was assigned to this mission, not because I want to. If I could, I'd be out of here in a second. How could you come back to all this?  Why keep fighting? 
Snake      : There's something my best friend said to me once. 
Raiden     : Wha...? 
Snake      : We're not tools of the government or anyone else. Fighting was the only thing I was good at, but... At least I always fought for what I believed in... 
Raiden     : What about -- what about the DNA results from that body? 
Otacon     : That was Liquid's body. He and Snake are identical on the genetic level. 
Raiden     : Liquid. 
Otacon     : A deception -- for our own protection. We stole his frozen body from some organization. Kind of a hassle though... 
Snake      : That's all there is to it. 
Raiden     : Are you two really an NGO? 
Otacon     : Insofar as we're a nonprofit organization of civilians advocating a cause, yes. The cause happens to be the eradication of Metal Gear. 
Snake      : We work on our own. But it's a cause worth fighting for. 
Raiden     : Why would you stick your neck out for something this risky? 
Snake      : That's the way I used to look at it, four years ago. I was holed up in the middle of nowhere in Alaska, drinking too much. 
Otacon     : We have a responsibility to the coming generations, to the world. 
Raiden     : What responsibility? 
Otacon     : To keep track of the mistakes we've made as a species. 
Snake      : We need to remember -- to spread the word -- to fight for change. And that's what keeps me alive. 
Raiden     : You think you can change the future? 
Snake      : I'm not as arrogant as that. 
Raiden     : What you do isn't grassroots activism. It's more like terrorism. 
Otacon     : I admit that... But our group, Philanthropy, received some information: a new Metal Gear prototype was being developed here, and terrorists were planning to raid the facility. The information came from a very reliable source. 
Raiden     : So you're here to... 
Otacon     : We're here to stop all that, but I also have a personal motive. 
Snake      : Looks like the terrorists have his sister in the Big Shell. We're here on our own, not under anyone's orders. We have our own battles. Otacon's here for someone -- I'm not. 
Raiden     : This is a military mission. 
[End transmission.  Rose calls Raiden.] 
Rose       : Jack? Are you all right? 
Raiden     : Just barely. 
Rose       : You almost gave me a heart attack... 
Raiden     : Sorry. Wasn't intentional. 
Rose       : I know that. And I know I need to stay stronger. 
Raiden     : Say a prayer for me, Rose. So I can come back... 
Rose       : You will make it back. I'm with you all the way, remember... 
Raiden     : That means a lot to me, you know. 
Rose       : I'm going to save the data, okay Jack? 
[Raiden saves his data.  Raiden then calls the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, Metal Gear's already gone active... 
Colonel    : It's not too late. You can still prevent a nuclear strike by securing the President and preventing password confirmation from taking place. Get to the President. He's in the core section of Shell 2. 
Rose       : I'm checking the satellite images... Looks like you can get to the core from the other side of Strut L. 
Colonel    : The core hasn't gone under yet from what we can tell. Follow the railings down, then jump onto the pipes. 
Rose       : The only viable strut in the outer perimeter is the L. That attack just now doesn't make any sense -- it's like they have no more use for this place. 
Raiden     : Colonel, you were monitoring the Codec calls. That man was the real Snake, all along... 
Colonel    : Maybe. 
Raiden     : Maybe? 
Colonel    : Don't let your guard down with him. 
Raiden     : Why do you say that? 
Colonel    : Because they were never a part of the simulation. They're an unknown factor. 
Raiden     : You can take your simulation and...! We're out here, we bleed, we die! 
Rose       : Calm down! 
Colonel    : I suggest that you do, Raiden. Even if that is Snake, that has no bearing on your mission. 
 
Colonel    : I don't give a damn what that piece of trash said. Do you get me? 
[End transmission.]
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 06)  Don't touch me there!
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Raiden makes it to the Shell 2 Core.  He finds Olga talking to Solidus inside. He sneaks a safe distance away and listens in with his directional microphone. 
Solidus    : Snake, he's here -- in Shell 1. 
Olga       : My father has some unfinished business with him. 
Solidus    : Olga, calm yourself! I'm not changing my plans for your personal feelings. 
Olga       : Then screw your plan. I've been waiting for this day for two years and I will send him to the bottom of the ocean -- right next to my old man! 
Solidus    : The launch comes first! 
Olga       : Damn. 
[Olga punches the wall.] 
Olga       : Where's Ocelot? 
Solidus    : Why? 
Olga       : I don't trust him. 
Solidus    : Don't talk that way about one of you own! 
 
Solidus    : We'll talk later. We need to get started on the final check for the unit. 
Olga       : Alright, I'm heading back there. 
Solidus    : The upper connecting bridge for Shell 1 is down. 
Olga       : What about the chopper? 
Solidus    : The Kamov is out of action. Take the Oil Fence from Strut L. 
Olga       : I'll tell my men to get started. 
Solidus    : Not yet, there retrieval comes last. The intruder is still at large. 
Olga       : Hmm... 
Solidus    : What about the other? 
Olga       : He's got luck on his side. 
Solidus    : He survived that explosion... Listen, Olga, the code confirmation is in one hour. Keep the President alive until then! 
Olga       : I know, no one gets in here. Turn the currents on. 
Solidus    : Of course. 
[Olga watches as a high-voltage current is turned on and passes through a metal grating in front of her.] 
Solidus    : High-voltage currents on. 
Olga       : The door stays shut unless the President manages to take out that circuit panel from inside the room -- and that's no job for bare hands. 
Solidus    : Alright, come back immediately. 
Olga       : One more thing -- 
Solidus    : What? 
Olga       : We live for Russia when this mission is over. I want half the money for that. 
Solidus    : Of course -- that was part of the original plan. 
Olga       : We're living for ourselves after this. If anyone wants to stay, I want you to take good care of them. 
Solidus    : Gladly -- Gurlukovich soldiers are the cream of the crop. 
Olga       : It's time they went free... 
Solidus    : What happened to rebuilding Mother Russia? 
Olga       : The old man is dead -- the world is a different place now. 
Solidus    : It's your life. 
Olga       : Just a reminder, I'm going to say this one last time: Don't try anything on us. 
Solidus    : The feeling is mutual. 
[Olga leaves.  Raiden calls the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : I'm in front of the room where they're keeping the President. 
Colonel    : Everything all right? 
Raiden     : No sign of flooding, but I can't get close to the door. The floor is electrified. 
Colonel    : Don't test it. You'll be bacon. 
Raiden     : Any suggestions? 
Colonel    : Remember the Shadow Moses VR training. 
Raiden     : Take out the circuit panel? 
Colonel    : Right. 
Raiden     : But there's no way into the room. 
Colonel    : Try ventilation ducts. 
Raiden     : Yeah, I think I see one. 
Colonel    : Look for a remote-control missile launcher. You can guide it through the duct into the room. 
Raiden     : ...then target the circuit panel. Got it. 
Colonel    : Right. But make sure you don't hit the President. 
Raiden     : The President is wired with nanomachines. If we know the frequency, I can raise him... 
Colonel    : We've tried that repeatedly, but there's no response. It looks like the walls have a built-in radio shield. 
Raiden     : So that's why Ames lost contact with him... 
Colonel    : If you need to confirm his position, you can log into the node. 
Raiden     : Understood. 
Colonel    : Locate a remote-control missile launcher first. 
[End transmission.  Raiden heads down to B2 of the Shell 2 Core to find the Nikita.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, B1 is completely flooded from what I can see. 
Colonel    : You'll have to swim through. 
Raiden     : I'm fine with swimming. 
Colonel    : Stroke the water and move forward by pushing the Punch button. Push in rapid succession to swim faster. Change your heading with the left analog stick. Up will take you up, down takes you lower, left and right face those directions. The O2 Gauge will appear under your Life Gauge while you're underwater. The gauge corresponds to the amount of air you can hold from a single deep breath. Once the O2 Gauge falls to zero, the Life Gauge will start to drop. You need to be aware of that. 
[End transmission.  Raiden finds the Nikita and takes out the circuit breaker. Inside the room he finds President James Johnson.  He is wearing a red tie, white shirt, and black pants.  Raiden walks towards him.] 
Raiden     : President Johnson. 
Johnson    : So your finally here... 
Raiden     : You've been expecting me? 
Johnson    : Your equipment -- that Skull Suit isn't exactly standard military issue. 
Raiden     : Are you alright, sir? 
Johnson    : Is this some kind of sick joke -- I thought you came to kill me? 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : I'm prepared to face the consequences of my actions. 
Raiden     : What are you -- ? 
[Quickly, the President grabs Raiden's crotch and squeezes.] 
Raiden     : What the -- !? 
Johnson    : Your...a man? Hmm...well, who are you? 
Raiden     : FOXHOUND, sir. 
Johnson    : FOXHOUND? I see. Now things are starting to make a little sense. Switch over to nanocommunications so nobody can listen in. 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Do you read me, sir? 
Johnson    : Uh... yes. 
Raiden     : Mr. President. It's my understanding that the terrorists have managed to input the code sequence necessary for launching a nuclear strike... 
Johnson    : That's correct. I punched the sequence in myself. 
Raiden     : You're working for them!? 
Johnson    : If you asked me two hours ago, my answer would have been yes. Right now, they're keeping me alive until my vital signs are reconfirmed. 
Raiden     : They betrayed you? 
Johnson    : I wouldn't quite put it that way. I wanted power. They sought destruction. 
Raiden     : But why stoop to terrorism!? 
Johnson    : I wanted absolute power. 
Raiden     : But you're the President -- you have power... 
Johnson    : No. I'm just a figurehead. 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : I don't have any control. The real power is in the Patriots' hands. 
Raiden     : The Patriots...? 
Johnson    : The truth behind this country... I'm not surprised you've never heard of them. Very few are aware of their existence, even among those with codeword clearance. 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : Politics, the military, the economy -- they control it all. They even choose who becomes President... Putting it simply, the  Patriots rule this country. 
Raiden     : No... 
Johnson    : Hard to believe, isn't it? But it's the truth. The Space Defense, income tax reduction and the National Missile Defense (NMD) programs -- Every policy that's been credited to me was actually done according to their instructions. 
Raiden     : Space Defense was initiated by Congress... 
 
Raiden     : ...No. 
Johnson    : This country is shaped and controlled as the Patriots see fit. The people are shown what they want to believe. What you call government is actually a well-staged production aimed at satisfying the public! 
Raiden     : ... 
Johnson    : Don't look at me like that -- I'm legally sane, you know. 
Raiden     : It's not your sanity that worries me... 
[Twelve grainy black and white pictures appear on screen one by one.  There are men in the pictures.  There is a red bar over each of their eyes.] 
Johnson    : The Patriots -- even I don't know who the actual members are. Are they financial, political, or military leaders? No one knows who the Patriots really are. Even my instructions  come from a cut-out. All I've been told is that every key decision is made by a group of twelve men known as the Wisemen's Committee. 
Raiden     : Your Office...? The White House...? 
Johnson    : Merely puppets. Pawns in a game. By pledging my loyalty, an insignificant son of a senator was awarded the Presidency. Of course, that wasn't the only price I had to pay... 
Raiden     : What do you mean? 
Johnson    : Even if a pawn becomes a queen, it is still just a playing piece. I wanted to leave my own mark in history. But my ambitions were... You'll understand someday... 
[Codec screen.] 
Johnson    : I wished to be a member of the Patriots. I wanted to wield the power of a king, instead of being an expendable pawn... 
Raiden     : And that justifies acts of terrorism? 
Johnson    : Yes. I'd intended to use the new Metal Gear as a bargaining chip... 
Raiden     : Bargaining chip? 
Johnson    : But I underestimated Solidus... he actually wants to challenge the Patriots -- even if it means the destruction of the world! 
Raiden     : What are you saying? 
 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : Picture a massive political vacuum, a space that every power-monger will try to fill for their own greedy ends. I'm talking about an unregulated power struggle -- panic, civil  war... chaos. Like it or not -- the Patriots is an organization that must continue to exist. 
Raiden     : So you changed your mind because you wanted to avoid global chaos? 
Johnson    : When I told Solidus that I wished to prevent disaster, he replied that pawns can never become players... 
Raiden     : And who is this... Solidus? 
[Pictures of George Sears are shown.] 
 
Raiden     : Four years ago... Shadow Moses? 
[Brief flashback to Shadow Moses.] 
Johnson    : Yes, that's right. At the time, the DARPA Chief, Donald Anderson -- together with certain influential parties -- initiated the development of Metal Gear REX and an advanced nuclear warhead.  However, this did not fall in line with the Patriots' plans. What's more, Solidus decided on his own to send his most trusted man, Ocelot, to provoke Liquid Snake, bringing about the said incident. As a result, he succeeded in obtaining  REX and the data on the warhead. But in doing so, he ended up revealing the existence... of both REX and the Genome army -- a blunder that earned him the wrath of the Patriots. Shortly thereafter, Solidus was removed from the Presidential Office. 
Raiden     : I thought he resigned... 
 
Raiden     : But that would mean that the Presidential race was -- 
Johnson    : That was quite a show, wasn't it? It was a well-scripted drama staged by the Patriots for the benefit of the public. Even the Democrats and Republicans were dancing to the Patriots' tune. Everything went according to plan, but for one exception... 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : Following his resignation, Solidus' health was scheduled to fail him, bringing about his untimely death. 
Raiden     : Capped...? 
Johnson    : Correct. But before the Patriots could execute their plot, Solidus went underground with the help of Ocelot. As he avoided pursuit, Solidus gained control of Dead Cell, winning over Colonel Gurlukovich's outfit. From there, he bided his time, knowing that his opportunity would soon arrive... 
Raiden     : What opportunity? 
Johnson    : The completion of the new Metal Gear project -- an opportunity that would even his odds against the Patriots. By stealing the Patriots' most valued project, he would be able to place them in a very uncomfortable position. It's the only chance he has for survival. Once he has the new Metal Gear, he'll declare war against the Patriots. Needless to say, he must be stopped. 
Raiden     : Metal Gear is already operational... 
Johnson    : No. Not yet. 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : What you saw was Metal Gear RAY -- hijacked two years ago from the Marines by Ocelot. That was not the new Metal Gear. 
 
Raiden     : What'd you say? 
Johnson    : No. I'm quite serious. The upper structure that you've seen is camouflage designed to represent an offshore cleanup facility. The main structure extends from the foundation all the way down to the ocean floor. The connecting elevator is located on the B2 floor of the Shell 1 Core. Arsenal Gear... that's the code name for the new Metal Gear. 
Raiden     : Arsenal? 
]Pictures of Arsenal Gear are shown.] 
Johnson    : That's right... Arsenal. We're talking about an impregnable fortress carrying a load of over a couple of thousand missiles including nuclear warheads -- all protected by a horde of mass-produced Metal Gear RAY units. 
Raiden     : Mass-produced...? 
Johnson    : The RAY unit was originally designed for the Marines to be used as a countermeasure against the Metal Gear variations throughout the world. The Patriots had RAY redesigned  to protect the new Arsenal Gear. 
Raiden     : So now anti-Metal Gears are guarding a Metal Gear? 
Johnson    : Ironic, isn't it? That's not all. Arsenal Gear has full access to the Military's Tactical Network, giving it the ability to exercise absolute control over our nation's armed forces, not to mention our nuclear armament. In short, Arsenal was created to be the core of our country. 
Raiden     : What kind of idiotic weapon --? 
Johnson    : Weapon? No. You're not seeing the full picture. 
Raiden     : ? 
Johnson    : Arsenal Gear is more than just a military tool... 
[Codec screen.] 
Johnson    : It is a means to preserve the world as it is. It will establish a new form of control. 
Raiden     : The Patriots will use it to keep their place as the country's true rulers. 
Johnson    : ...Right now they feel pressured and threatened. 
Raiden     : By what? 
Johnson    : They fear an overabundance of digital information -- the world will drown in the coming flood of information, and they along with it. 
Raiden     : ? 
 
Raiden     : The key...? 
 
Raiden     : Bargain for what? 
Johnson    : I'd hoped to trade my way into their ranks. But Solidus preferred rebellion. Outer Heaven -- his plan to unleash a nuclear blast over the skies of Wall Street to break the Patriots' control over the business community -- is also a key factor in his offensive effort. 
Raiden     : Outer Heaven...? 
 
Raiden     : Role? 
Johnson    : You've got to find Emma Emmerich. She's the only one who can stop that thing once it's been activated. 
Raiden     : Emma -- Emmerich? 
Johnson    : She's the system programmer for Arsenal Gear. I believe she's somewhere on level B1 in the core of this building. 
Raiden     : I thought the levels below us were flooded? 
Johnson    : I'm sure they won't let her die just yet as she's the only remaining programmer for this project. According to Ocelot, she was being held in locker room located in the northwest part of level B1. Cut transmission, and get moving! 
[End transmission. Johnson hands Raiden a keycard.] 
Johnson    : Here's security card 4. It will give you access all the way to Emma's location. Give this to her when you find her. 
[President Johnson hands Raiden a disc.] 
Raiden     : What is it? 
Johnson    : A program to disrupt the control functions between GW and Arsenal Gear. Take Emma to the computer room on level B2 of the Shell 1 Core. She'll know how to load the program into the main system. 
Raiden     : A virus? 
Johnson    : That's right. Modeled after FOX-DIE -- a biological weapon used to selectively eliminate personnel with a specific genetic code. 
Raiden     : But why do you have it? 
Johnson    : The Patriots had it engineered as a fail-safe. And Ocelot forgot to search me. You've got to hurry! That disc is the only way you're going to stop Arsenal! 
[The President falls silent.] 
Johnson    : Well...I've told you everything you need to know. 
[He turns his back to Raiden.] 
Johnson    : There's only one thing that remains to be done... 
Raiden     : ? 
[Johnson grabs Raiden's SOCOM and pulls it to his chest.] 
Johnson    : Kill me. 
Raiden     : What the...? 
Johnson    : There's no time to argue! The final check for my vital ID could start any second now. If you kill me now you'll at least prevent the nuclear strike. 
Raiden     : Cut it out! 
[Raiden tries to wrestle the gun away.] 
Johnson    : Do it --!! That's your role! Pull!! 
[A gunshot rings out.  Johnson stumbles as blood pours from his chest.  Raiden stands back non-plussed.] 
Ocelot     : That's abusing your right to free speech, Mr. President... 
[Ocelot is standing in the open doorway with his revolver smoking.] 
Ocelot     : Or is it Ex-president? 
Raiden     : The President -- why did you!? 
Ocelot     : Alas, my finger must have slipped... 
[He holsters his gun.] 
 
[Ocelot leaves the room.  Raiden begins to follow but the President lurches out and grabs Raiden's leg.] 
Johnson    : Forget him... He...did us a favor... Without freedom, there is no difference between submission and rebellion. My only real choice is to put a end to this charade. Let me at least have the freedom to end it myself... 
Raiden     : What are you -- ? 
Johnson    : Find Emma... Stop Arsenal...! This is my last order...as your Commander-in-Chief... I'm counting on you... 
[The President dies.  Raiden walks out into the hallway and calls up the Colonel.] 
Raiden     : Colonel, the President is dead. 
Colonel    : I see... I'm sorry to hear that. 
Raiden     : Where do we go from here? 
Raiden     : Your mission was to rescue the President and eliminate the terrorist threat. However, given the recent turn of events, we will honor the President's last directive. You must put a stop to Arsenal Gear once and for all. 
Raiden     : Do you actually think there's any truth to his story about this Big Shell facility being a front for Arsenal Gear? 
Colonel    : I don't have the security clearance necessary to verify the facts. However, he was the President. I'm sure he knew what he was talking about. 
Raiden     : Aren't you forgetting that he was part of the terrorist plot? 
Colonel    : All the more reason why I believe his information is reliable. We're talking about a man who chose to die rather than risk a nuclear holocaust. Thanks to his sacrifice, the nuclear launch authority has shifted to the Vice President, effectively eliminating the terrorist threat. 
 
Colonel    : That was not my intention. I was trying to point out that there is certainly some credibility to the words of a man who chose death to protect the innocent. 
Rose       : The Colonel has a point, Jack. 
 
Colonel    : That's a new one on me. I'll see what I can find out. Raiden, we're running out of time. Find Emma. She's supposed to be located on level B1, in the core of that building you're in, right? You've got to find her before Arsenal becomes fully operational. 
Rose       : Hurry Jack! 
Colonel    : It's up to you to make sure that the President didn't sacrifice his life in vain. 
Raiden     : Understood.... Raiden out. 
[Snake contacts Raiden.] 
Snake      : What's your status, Raiden? 
Raiden     : Snake? The President... he's been assassinated. There was nothing I could do -- 
Snake      : What about the nuclear strike code sequence!? 
Raiden     : He died before his vital ID could be reconfirmed. 
Snake      : Then the enemy's lost their nuclear strike capability -- 
Raiden     : But, that Ocelot guy obviously killed the President on purpose. Why? It doesn't make any sense. They had to know that they couldn't launch the nuke if they killed the President. 
Otacon     : Maybe there's a way to launch without reconfirming the vital ID? 
Snake      : Or maybe they've found a more effective weapon within Arsenal Gear. 
Raiden     : You knew about Arsenal Gear!? 
Snake      : Yeah... 
Raiden     : Why didn't you tell me about it!? 
Snake      : You never asked. 
Raiden     : Am I correct in assuming you also know that the Big Shell's a front for the project!? 
Snake      : You mean, did I know that the Big Shell, a fully functional environmental cleanup facility, was designed to camouflage Arsenal Gear? Yeah, I did. 
Raiden     : It's exactly what the President and Ames described... a massive cover story. 
Otacon     : The good news is that it hasn't really done much in terms of cleaning up the environment, so we won't have to worry about any toxic gas being released if we have to blow the house down. 
Raiden     : Right... and when did you find out about all of this? 
Snake      : It took a while, but we uncovered the info around the time you took out that mad bomber. 
Raiden     : ... 
Snake      : There's no doubt that Arsenal Gear is being built here...then it was all set up two years ago on that day -- all of it. 
Raiden     : Two years ago... What really happened here? 
[Snake's pictures of Metal Gear Ray are shown on several webpages.] 
Snake      : I took these photos two years ago. 
Raiden     : I remember these pictures. They were on the news and several websites. If I remember right, the reporters blamed you for sinking the tanker. 
Snake      : That's right. Otacon. Me. We were used. 
Otacon     : We hoped that by going public with the photos of the new Metal Gear we could persuade the government. At least that was the plan at the time. 
Raiden     : I've gone through VR training of the Tanker mission before. 
Snake      : Yeah? Well I doubt it accurately simulates the events of that actual mission. 
[Flashbacks of the Tanker mission.] 
Snake      : I'd infiltrated the dummy tanker to obtain proof that a Metal Gear was under development. Shortly after I made it aboard, an armed group led  by Colonel Gurlukovich raided the ship and gained control. 
Otacon     : Olga and Ocelot were among the raiding party. 
Snake      : Yeah. And him... 
Raiden     : Who're you talking about? 
Snake      : A man that was supposed to be dead. Their target was also Metal Gear RAY. But Ocelot eliminated Colonel Gurlukovich and Marine Commander Scott Dolph -- and he hijacked RAY. 
Raiden     : So he betrayed them? 
Snake      : I don't know what kind of deal was going down. All I remember is what Ocelot said at the time -- something about taking it back. Ocelot then sank the tanker along with the soldiers of the Marine Corps... 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : How did you manage to get out? 
Snake      : Otacon managed to have a small boat ready for me. 
Otacon     : That was the easy part. The tough part was not getting dragged down with the sinking tanker -- small miracle when you think about it. 
Snake      : It turned out that the whole thing was a setup to lure us. 
[Some more flashbacks.] 
Otacon     : Photos of Snake -- taken by the Cypher -- were released to the public. In turn, we became the world's most wanted environmental terrorists... It was definitely a move aimed at putting a stop to our anti-Metal Gear activities. 
Raiden     : But why did they choose Snake? 
Otacon     : Since the Shadow Moses incident, Snake became sort of a hero. I think the Patriots weren't too happy about that. 
Raiden     : You knew about the Patriots!? 
Otacon     : Well yes... to a certain degree. 
Raiden     : It seems like everyone knows about them except me. 
Otacon     : They didn't choose Snake to be a hero... 
Raiden     : So they decided to do a smear campaign. 
Otacon     : I think the Patriots wanted to make an example of him so everybody would think twice before opposing them. 
Raiden     : That's it! They set all this up just to nail you guys? 
Otacon     : No. There's more to it than that -- the Marines' Metal Gear RAY project headed by Commander Dolph was carried out in opposition to the Navy's Arsenal Gear project. To be more precise, the Patriots considered Metal Gear RAY to be a thorn in their side. Hence, they attacked the dummy tanker and stole RAY... They followed this up with the perfect plan. They immediately sent a fully loaded tanker to the same location and sank it, then set up the facility to camouflage the development of Arsenal Gear. 
Snake      : And we fell for it -- two more puppets in their show. 
Raiden     : Colonel Gurlukovich... and his daughter, Olga? 
Otacon     : Both fell victim to Ocelot's plot. 
Raiden     : Was Solidus behind all this? He used  Ocelot to get hold of RAY, huh? 
Otacon     : No. He was underground, keeping a low profile at the time. 
Raiden     : Then it must be the Patriots... 
Otacon     : If that's the case, what's Ocelot doing alongside Solidus? 
Raiden     : ? 
[Codec screen.] 
Snake      : Forget it. We're wasting time. We can figure this out later. The nuclear strike's been prevented, but Arsenal still has a massive payload of missiles to deal with. 
Otacon     : Right. If the opposition gets control of those missiles... 
Snake      : Raiden -- you've got to find Emma. 
Raiden     : Wait a second. Isn't Emma Emmerich -- 
Otacon     : My sister. 
Raiden     : What's she doing here? You got me. She's a computer whiz who  specializes in neural-AI and ultra-variable volume data analysis using complex logic. How she got involved in weapons development is beyond me. 
Raiden     : ... 
Snake      : Whatever her reasons, we need her in order to stop Arsenal. 
Otacon     : Raiden -- find her. 
Raiden     : I'm on my way. 
[End transmission.] 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 07)  This guy is really a pain the arse
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Raiden makes his way through the flooded levels of B1 in the Shell 2 Core. He surfaces at an air pocket to catch his breath when he is contacted by Otacon.] 
Otacon     : Raiden, are you reading me? This is Otacon. What's your situation? 
Raiden     : Wet and miserable... this place is flooded. The seawater that's been pumped up is pouring into the building. 
Otacon     : I see. Listen, there's something I have to tell you about E.E. 
Raiden     : Don't worry about her. I'll get her out -- 
Otacon     : She's afraid of water. 
Raiden     : What!? 
Otacon     : Yeah... when she was six years old, she almost drowned with my father in our swimming pool. 
Raiden     : She can't swim!? 
Otacon     : Well yes and no... we used to swim a lot together when we were kids. In fact, she swam like a fish until that day when she almost drowned... 
Raiden     : That pretty much coincides with what the Colonel told me... 
Raiden     : When the accident happened, I was in my room. I learned later that E.E. was calling me for help... She didn't doubt for a minute that I'd be there. You could see the pool from my room... but I didn't realize at the time that she needed my help. 
Raiden     : What were you doing? 
Otacon     : I... I was... 
Raiden     : So Emma survived the ordeal... 
Otacon     : Yeah. But my father didn't... 
Raiden     : So you blamed yourself and left your family? 
Otacon     : No. E.E. seems to believe that was the case. The fact is... I betrayed her. 
Raiden     : And you think that she can't swim because of the traumatic experience? 
Otacon     : I haven't seen her since that day... but yes, I think so. I got a letter from Julie, her mother, after they moved back to England. In her letter, she mentioned that E.E. couldn't swim anymore... that she refused to even wear a bathing suit. 
Raiden     : Damn! If she still can't swim, we're in trouble... level B1 in the core is pretty much flooded. 
Otacon     : Look... maybe you can help her overcome the trauma. 
Raiden     : You want me to help her get over it? 
Otacon     : It's still going to take some time to repair the Kamov. 
Snake      : Sorry, kid. Emma's rescue is up to you. 
Raiden     : Thanks. An underwater mission... well, this is a first. Look -- I'll see what I can do. 
Snake      : I suggest that you drum the map of the building into your head, 'cause you won't have time to look at it when you try to bring Emma out. 
Otacon     : I'm counting on you, Raiden. 
Snake      : I covered most of the core when I had to take out the C4's... if there's anything you need to ask me, call me on the Codec. 
Raiden     : I'll do that. 
[End transmission.  Raiden opens a doorway to move on but out floats the body of Peter Stillman.  He didn't make it far from the blast.] 
[Raiden goes through two more rooms.  He enters a room that has a platform sitting over a strange body of liquid.  It looks like water but there is something different about it.  Sitting in the middle of the pool of water is Vamp.  Raiden quickly points his gun in Vamp's direction.] 
Raiden     : Still tickin', huh? 
[Vamp looks at Raiden.] 
Vamp       : Unfortunately, hell had no vacancies... 
[Vamp stands up, on the water.] 
Raiden     : Argh! 
[Raiden fires three shots at Vamp.  Vamp twists and spins to dodge the shots. One of them, however, grazes his cheek.  He touches it gingerly.] 
Vamp       : Hahaha... I thought so. Human muscles are quite eloquent. They speak-out clearly what the person's next movement will be. They even tell me which way a gun will be pointed before the trigger is pulled. But your muscles -- they're different. This should be fun...well worth the wait. 
Raiden     : You knew I was coming? 
Vamp       : You think I'm going to lose -- I can't let you interfere with Arsenal Gear. 
[Vamp points to the door on the other side of the room.] 
Vamp       : The girl is just ahead. She is of no use to us now... But she served us well as the live bait for the big catch. Crazy Ivan sometimes speaks the truth. 
[Emma is shown standing in a locker room.] 
Raiden     : Emma's alive? 
Vamp       : She was quite some time ago. But the flooding has become quite serious. I wouldn't be surprised if she's a mermaid now. 
Raiden     : What...? 
Vamp       : Did you really think killing the President would prevent a nuclear strike? Think again! 
Raiden     : I didn't do it! 
Vamp       : Hmph... Arsenal Gear is still armed with a purified hydrogen bomb. 
Raiden     : Purified hydrogen bomb -- ? 
[Plans for a bomb are shown.] 
Vamp       : This is no ordinary nuclear bomb. This weapon is capable of heavy hydrogen nuclear fusion using lasers and magnetics to generate heat-insulated compression. It was a top secret project initiated by the current President...and Solidus has no idea of its existence. The clean thermonuclear bomb is at an experimental stage and is handled differently. Specifically, it becomes launch-capable when Arsenal is activated. A nuclear threat still exists. 
[Pictures of a devastated Dead Cell are shown.] 
 
Raiden     : You're insane. 
Vamp       : Insane? We might be the only ones telling the truth... 
[An alarm sounds.  There is an announcement over the PA system.] 
Announcer  : Final check for activating Arsenal is completed. All non-essential personnel report to your stations... 
Vamp       : Well, it sounds like Arsenal is ready to go into operation. 
Raiden     : Damn it! 
Vamp       : Your still hoping that girl can install that virus your carrying around -- aren't you? 
Raiden     : You knew? 
Vamp       : It's a shame your not going to be around long enough to hand her the program. 
[Vamp glances at the water below him.] 
Vamp       : This isn't sea water, you know. It's a byproduct of the microbes contained in the pool. Buoyancy is practically non-existent thanks to the high oxygen content. Once you fall in -- you don't come up! Take a good look at your grave. Show me what you've got! 
[Raiden and Vamp duel.  Raiden manages to get in some hits on Vamp and send him back into the pool of water.] 
Vamp       : Haaaaarch! 
[Blood seeps into the water as Vamp raises his arms to fight his descent.] 
Vamp       : Waaaargh! 
[Vamp goes under.  Raiden calls the Colonel on his Codec.] 
Raiden     : Colonel! They've apparently completed the final check procedure for Arsenal Gear! 
Colonel    : Find Emma on the double! You've got to get her to install the virus program that the President gave you! When you find her, take her to the Computer Room on level B2 in the core of Shell 1! 
[Raiden calls Pliskin.] 
Raiden     : Snake! Did you catch all that!? I didn't make it on time... Arsenal's going active! 
Snake      : Yeah, I heard. The hostage rescue's gonna have to wait. 
Raiden     : I'm going after Emma. 
Snake      : We'll secure the Computer Room. 
Raiden     : Looks like we can't install the virus program without Emma. 
Snake      : Can't your partner do it? 
Otacon     : I would if I could. But the security for this system is no joke. I need more time... 
Snake      : That's why we need her. 
Raiden     : Understood. I'll make sure you have your family reunion... 
Otacon     : ... 
Raiden     : What's up? 
Otacon     : A lot of years have passed between E.E. and me... 
Raiden     : Then you should see her, right? 
Otacon     : I don't have the right to see her. 
Snake      : We can talk about this later. Raiden, I think you'd better get moving, Emma's in the Locker Room to the north, right? 
[Raiden tries to continue on but he is stopped in his tracks by another call from Rose.] 
Rose       : I've always been alone... I'm so lonely... 
Raiden     : Lonely? Rose, we've always -- 
Rose       : Not always. You've never slept beside me... 
Raiden     : What are you talking about? I -- 
Rose       : After we've been together in my room... you stay awake all night or you head for the door. 
Raiden     : Is this really the time to bring this up? 
Rose       : Why, Jack? Why? 
Raiden     : Listen, Rose. I'm right in the middle of a mission, and I... 
Rose       : Why!? Why can't you relax when you're with me!? 
Raiden     : Look... the mission... I... 
Rose       : Why don't you open up to me!? 
Raiden     : Rose... I... I just can't! 
Rose       : All I ever wanted was to share your dreams -- to spend a meaningful evening with you... I just wanted to find you by my side when I woke up. Is that asking too much? 
Raiden     : It's the night -- I'm scared of the night... it's got nothing to do with you... 
Rose       : Scared of the night? What's that supposed to mean? 
Raiden     : I can't relax when I'm with someone... 
Rose       : Jack? You wouldn't even let me in your room! 
Raiden     : I need privacy... I just can't be bothered. 
Rose       : Bothered!? 
Raiden     : Wrong word! What I wanted to say was that there are certain things that I have to keep to myself... 
Rose       : Do you remember that time I forced my way into your room? We'd known each other for almost a year... and you blew up! It was the first time you ever raised your hand against me! I was so worried about you... 
Rose       : Look... I'm sorry... 
Raiden     : It wasn't your violent nature that scared me. It was your room... your heart... 
Raiden     : Stop it... 
Rose       : There wasn't anything in your room -- only a bed and a small desk. It looked like a prison cell... No television set... no family pictures... not even a poster... 
Raiden     : Rose, I only use that room for sleeping. 
Rose       : A lifeless room... almost like your empty heart. 
Raiden     : That's why I tried to keep you out. 
Rose       : I thought I was beginning to understand you -- until I saw that room. 
Raiden     : Would you have been happier if I had a picture of you hanging on the wall!? 
Rose       : That's not what I was trying to say -- 
Raiden     : Enough, Rose. We'll talk about this later... after the mission. 
Rose       : Right... after the mission... I understand. 
[End transmission.] 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 08)  Rescuing the fair maiden
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Raiden opens a locker in the locker room with his gun drawn.  Upon sight of Raiden and his gun Emma starts to panic and she wets her pants.  Raiden backs away with his hands up trying to calm her down.] 
Raiden     : Are you alright? 
Emma       : Who are you!? 
Raiden     : Raiden. I'm getting you out of here. 
Emma       : Get me out? Your lying -- where are you taking me this time! 
Raiden     : What are you talking about!? I'm here to help! Here -- it'll prove it. Do you have nanos? 
Emma       : What? 
Raiden     : Well, do you? 
Emma       : I do. Everyone on this project has them. 
Raiden     : Alright, let's try. 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Can you hear me, now? 
Emma       : Nanocommunication...? 
Raiden     : That's right. I have nanomachines, too. 
Emma       : Then you're not one of them... 
Raiden     : That's what I've been trying to tell you. 
Emma       : And you came to rescue me? 
Raiden     : Actually, I need your help to stop Arsenal... 
Emma       : I understand you're the only one who might be able to do it. 
Emma       : And who told you that? 
Raiden     : The President. 
Emma       : ...Really? 
Raiden     : I need you to come with me to Shell 1. Your brother's waiting for you there. 
Emma       : My brother? 
Raiden     : C'mon! We have to get moving! This place'll be flooded soon! 
[Raiden helps Emma off the ground.  Water starts to pour into the room.] 
Emma       : ... 
Raiden     : We'd better move. 
Emma       : I can't... I can't swim... 
[Codec screen.] 
Emma       : Leave me... 
Raiden     : You can swim! You used to love it! 
Emma       : How did you know...? 
Raiden     : Your brother told me. 
Emma       : He's really here? 
Raiden     : That's right... he's here to rescue you. 
Emma       : I don't believe you! He would never come for me! 
Raiden     : And I'm telling you he's here -- waiting for us at Shell 1! 
Emma       : No! He left me... my mother -- when we needed him the most! When my father died, all he could think about was himself! 
Raiden     : Emma, we can go over all that later. But first, we have to get out of here! 
Emma       : No! I hate water! It's hopeless! I can't swim! 
[Some water is shown.] 
Emma       : I can't swim! 
Raiden     : You can do it! 
Emma       : I can't... 
Raiden     : C'mon! Deep down inside, you know you can swim! 
Emma       : I can't keep my eyes open in the water... that endless blue... The water... it wants me... it won't let me go... 
Raiden     : Alright, then close your eyes. I'll guide you. 
Emma       : I... I was injected with something! Um... my legs! I have trouble moving them! 
Raiden     : Listen, Emma. Just hold your breath... I'll do the rest. 
[Views of rooms Raiden has passed through.] 
Raiden     : We'll head to Filter Chamber 2, then we'll take a break. 
Emma       : So all I have to do is hold my breath? 
Raiden     : That's right. 
Emma       : How long? 
Raiden     : Just a little while. 
Emma       : Are you sure? 
Raiden     : Of course I'm sure, that's how I got here. 
Emma       : I don't think I can do it. I'm not good at holding my breath. 
Raiden     : Look Emma, I have a idea... 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Put your ear against my chest and listen to my heartbeat. 
Emma       : Your heartbeat? 
Raiden     : Count the beats -- don't think about anything else. When you reach 100, open your eyes. By that time, we'll be on the other side. Give me a signal if you think you're running out of breath. 
Emma       : What will you do then? 
Raiden     : I'll swim faster. 
[Emma and Raiden are standing in the water, preparing to swim.] 
Raiden     : Hang on tight! 
[Emma gets on Raiden's back.] 
Raiden     : Okay, let's go. 
Emma       : I'm closing my eyes... 
Raiden     : Take some deep breaths... One... two... three... 
Emma       : Wait! 
[She gets off of Raiden's back.] 
Raiden     : What? 
[Emma removes her glasses.] 
Emma       : Let me take off my glasses! 
Raiden     : You know, you should wear contacts. 
Emma       : There's nothing wrong with my eyes. 
Raiden     : ? 
Emma       : I wear these for show. 
Raiden     : Trying to be different from the other girls? 
Emma       : No, it's not like that. I like glasses. And... there's this guy I liked who used to wear them... 
Raiden     : Your first boyfriend? 
Emma       : No, someone more important. Anyway, they bring me luck. 
Raiden     : I see... Okay, let's go. 
[They swim through and make it to Filter Chamber 2.  Rose calls up.] 
Rose       : Well, Jack. It sounds like you and Miss Emma are getting along just fine. I've been monitoring your every move and conversation. I can't say it's been fun... 
Raiden     : Give me a break! I'm only trying to keep her spirits up. 
Rose       : Is that right? 
Raiden     : Absolutely. My mission is to get her to the Computer Room. 
Rose       : That's all? 
Raiden     : Yeah. 
Rose       : You're lying. You're attracted to her, aren't you. 
Raiden     : ...I'll admit she's cute. 
Rose       : Cuter than me? 
Raiden     : Rose, you're beautiful. You know how I feel about you. 
Rose       : Have you remembered yet? 
Raiden     : You mean April 30th? It's your birthday, isn't it. 
Rose       : Wrong! You're not even warm! 
Raiden     : What is it then? 
Rose       : Forget it... it's nothing. Maybe I'm just a little... a little jealous... You'd better get moving. Good luck. 
[End transmission. They both sit down to rest.] 
Raiden     : You did good... 
Emma       : I concentrated on your heartbeat... It reminds me of when I was a kid... 
[Emma looks at her glasses. A picture is shown of her as a young girl with her brother.] 
Emma       : I remembered my brother giving me a piggyback ride... I was sleeping with my ear against his back... I could hear his heartbeat... 
Raiden     : Sounds like you were close. 
Emma       : We were... back then. We were stepchildren in our parent's second marriages. Wherever my brother went, I used to tag along... My brother didn't have any close friends, so he used to take care of me. We both wanted to be loved so much... so much that we used to pretend... 
Raiden     : Pretend? 
Emma       : My brother was the husband and I was the wife. But it was always just make believe... we were only kids. You know what I mean? 
Raiden     : I never had a family... but I think I know what you mean. 
[The Colonel calls up Raiden on the Codec.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, what's your status? 
Raiden     : Colonel? I've got Emma Emmerich here... we've managed to avoid drowning. 
Colonel    : Good job. Get her over to Shell 1 as soon as you can. 
Raiden     : That's going to be hard with the connecting bridge on the upper level destroyed. 
Colonel    : Didn't Olga say something about taking the oil fence at the bottom of Strut L? 
Raiden     : Yeah, I remember that. 
Colonel    : You should be able to go down by way of Strut L. Try and get over there. 
Raiden     : What about Emma? She's been injected with something and she can't walk without any help. 
Colonel    : Take her with you... free your hands of any equipment and hold down the Action button to give her a hand. To release your grip on her, take your finger off the Action button. Emma can sit and wait until you help her back up. And be careful... you won't be able to use any weapons while you're leading her. Now, head for Strut L! 
Raiden     : We're on our way. 
[Snake calls Raiden.] 
Snake      : Raiden, we've infiltrated the Computer Room. What's your situation? 
Raiden     : Emma's safe. We're heading your way. 
Otacon     : Good job! 
Snake      : Shell 1's deserted. Looks like everybody's aboard Arsenal. 
Otacon     : I had a look at the system, but there's nothing I can do. E.E.'s our only hope... 
Raiden     : Right... I'll put her on then. 
Otacon     : Huh? E.E.? How...? 
Raiden     : I'll use my Codec as a relay. 
Otacon     : Ahem, ummm... 
Raiden     : Here she is... 
Emma       : Uh... Hal...? 
Otacon     : Ah... E.E.? Is that you? 
Emma       : Hal... 
Otacon     : E.E.... Uh... why're you involved with Metal Gear? 
Emma       : Huh??? 
Otacon     : You knew our family's dark history, and still got involved!? What's wrong with you!? 
Emma       : I should've known... 
Otacon     : Answer me! Why are you repeating the same mistake? 
Emma       : ...I wanted to hurt you... I wanted to see you suffer... 
Otacon     : E.E....? 
Emma       : You abandoned me -- 
Otacon     : No! That's not what happened... 
Snake      : Alright -- that's enough! 
Otacon     : ... 
Emma       : Who are you? 
Snake      : I'm a friend of Otacon's, Emma. 
Emma       : Otacon... 
Snake      : Enough with the sibling rivalry. 
Emma       : That's not what this is!! 
Snake      : We haven't got time for this! Raiden! Get her over here, right now. 
Emma       : I -- I... 
Raiden     : Gotcha, Snake. I'll head over there with Emma. 
Snake      : Most of the enemy's aboard Arsenal. But I suggest you be careful. Make sure Emma gets here in one piece. 
Otacon     : Raiden... take care of my sister. 
Raiden     : Don't worry. I'll get her there. 
[Raiden and Emma continue to the next swimming section.]  
Raiden     : Emma, Snake and Hal are waiting for us near Shell 1's computer room. 
Raiden removes the virus's disc from his pocket.] 
Raiden     : I've got this disc the President gave me. This disc is supposed to contain a virus that can corrupt Arsenal Gear's operating system. We need you to... 
Emma       : This is... This is my program... 
Raiden     : What? 
Emma       : Why did the President give it to you? 
Raiden     : ... 
Emma       : Did something happen to the President? 
F[Flashback to the struggle at the end of the President's life.] 
Raiden     : The President... he's dead. 
Emma       : What...? 
Raiden     : You actually wrote this virus? 
Emma       : It's not really a virus... it's more like a worm cluster. It's actually a delayed-effect autonomous program that's designed to invade GW's cerebrum and render its nerve connections useless. 
Raiden     : You know what GW is? 
Emma       : Of course... I created it. 
Raiden     : ? 
Emma       : You look surprised. 
Raiden     : Uh... Well... 
Emma       : Cat got your tongue? 
 
Emma       : Yes. But I only know what I've been told. 
Raiden     : Can you tell me what you know? 
Emma       : Uh, sure. But it's hard to put into words. 
Raiden     : Right... 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Are you reading me, Emma? 
Emma       : Yes -- loud and clear. 
Raiden     : The President said that Arsenal Gear was the Patriots' key to supremacy. 
Emma       : That's as good a description as any. 
Raiden     : What exactly is it? 
Emma       : It's a massive data processing system capable of controlling information on a global scale. 
Raiden     : A data processing system...? 
Emma       : That's right. The system's a social device for maintaining the Patriots' control. 
Raiden     : You've lost me. 
Emma       : In this day and age, information emerges from every direction, and is freely distributed... A variety of information -- gathered by servers employing the latest in high-speed communication networks and P2P technology -- is rapidly circulated to individuals. In fact, the speed of this circulation process is accelerating on an almost daily basis. The Patriots seem to be afraid of this development. Apparently, they believe that their role will shift from dominant to dominated. 
Raiden     : ? 
Emma       : Let me give you an example. You're aware of Solid Snake's anti-Metal Gear activities, aren't you? 
Raiden     : Yeah -- I know a little about it. 
Emma       : That's just a small sample of uncontrolled information. I can guarantee you the Patriots did not want Solid Snake's name publicized. Now, look at it like this... political scandal, corporate corruption... up until now, the Patriots have managed to keep a lid on these and other self-serving events. But with their existing data processing system, they are no longer able to effectively control the flow of information generated at the individual level.  With the newly created system, they can fully regulate digital information. High-level information can be categorized in stages, given clearance levels, and deleted as necessary -- never to be seen by the public. By deleting such information, the Patriots can shape the course of history as they see fit. 
Raiden     : Somebody's bound to catch on -- 
Emma       : No. The memory capacity -- not to mention the life span -- of the average individual is extremely limited. On the other hand, digital information lasts virtually forever... it doesn't deteriorate. 
Raiden     : So...? 
Emma       : The alphabet... twenty-six letters, right? It could've been thirty letters. What if the 4 deleted letters were controlled by a program? 
Raiden     : Impossible. 
Emma       : It's not. In fact, something similar is already underway. Do you know how many genes exist in an individual? 
Raiden     : About 30 to 40 thousand? 
Emma       : Right. That's what was announced at the turn of the century. But there's actually 100 thousand, according to the original theory advanced by the scientific community. Information regarding the remaining 60 thousand was suppressed by the Patriots. 
Raiden     : No...? 
Emma       : Why? How would you know? Do you know what a gene looks like? Did you count them yourself? 
Raiden     : There are research organizations... 
Emma       : Of course... and their reports have already been subtly altered. They're even beginning to believe the doctored reports. GW is a system that allows the Patriots to decide what will be recorded in tomorrow's history. 
Raiden     : So what we're talking about is one huge censorship system for deleting information which might be inconvenient to the Patriots? 
Emma       : Exactly. The actual, physical core for handling the task -- GW -- is installed in Arsenal. It's the only system in the world with an optic neural AI that has a parallel processing capacity of 980 trillion hammets. 
Raiden     : I suppose that being a specialist in neural AI and complex logic played a significant role in your association with the Metal Gear project. 
Emma       : That's not the only reason... 
Raiden     : What do you mean? 
Emma       : ... 
Raiden     : I guess there're plenty of other reasons. 
Emma       : Yes, there are -- 
Raiden     : I understand... 
Emma       : Do you? 
Raiden     : So Arsenal Gear was actually designed to protect the GW system, wasn't it? 
Emma       : Uh...yes. It's armed with everything including nuclear weapons, and is fully equipped with cyber-terrorist countermeasures. Physically and logically, it's the ultimate fortress for housing GW. 
Raiden     : But is the AI actually capable of controlling everything? 
Emma       : No. GW is only the system's core. It's only for deciding what data is stored or deleted. The actual sub-system for executing the task exists within our social structure... 
Raiden     : What!? 
[Videos of people working on computers and New Years celebrations in the year 2000.] 
Emma       : Do you remember the panic that gripped the computer industry prior to the end of the century? 
Raiden     : You mean the Y2K problem? 
Emma       : That's right. If you recall, our government supplied the world with a countermeasure program -- using the internet at full capacity. The program was distributed to every governmental organization... every key facility...throughout the world. In addition, the same program was included in an OS application for distribution among the public. 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Let me guess... the Y2K countermeasure contained a program designed by the Patriots? 
Emma       : Yes. And everything supplied from that day onward contains the same program. 
Raiden     : Impossible. 
Emma       : Do you know how a computer operates? Do you really know the basic principles on how data is exchanged? 
Raiden     : ... 
Emma       : Nobody's aware of it, but there's a sub-system in place. And it's about to be activated. 
Raiden     : Is that why Solidus wants to burn out every electrical circuit in Manhattan with a nuclear blast? 
Emma       : Probably. But the overall system isn't actually complete. 
Raiden     : What? 
Emma       : It still lacks the necessary factors for judging situations. I heard they were planning a major experiment in the next few days, to provide complex data for GW to study. And suddenly all this happens... 
Raiden     : Emma... it's not your fault. If it wasn't for the terrorists... 
Emma       : Yeah... you're right... Well... I think that's about all I know. 
Raiden     : Right... uh, thanks. I think we'd better head for the Computer Room. 
Emma       : My bird in the Computer Room! Is he safe!? 
[That irritating parrot from the computer room is shown.] 
Raiden     : That noisy, overgrown parakeet? 
Emma       : Excuse me, he's a parrot. And he's my best friend -- my only friend. 
Raiden     : Well, the bird's okay... 
Emma       : Good. Did you know that in the old days, miners used to take a canary into the mine shaft to detect toxic gas? 
Raiden     : That's what he's for? 
Emma       : No... I needed somebody to talk to... 
Raiden     : Right, I think we'd better get moving. 
[Shell 2's flooded levels are shown.] 
Raiden     : We've got a little longer to cover than last time. 
Emma       : Right, I'll give it my best. 
Raiden     : Whatever you do, don't open your eyes. 
Emma       : Why not? 
Raiden     : A dead body, not a pretty sight. 
[Stillman's bloody body is shown floating in the water.] 
Emma       : Oh... 
Raiden     : Once we get past it, it will be too dark to see anything. 
[Raiden glances at Emma's hair.] 
Raiden     : What are those sticks in your head? 
Emma       : These? They're lacquered chopsticks. They hold your hair in place. Did you know they're pretty popular in Europe and South America? 
Raiden     : Can't say I do. Your not only cute, but smart too. 
Emma       : Oh -- I'm much more than cute. 
[Emma give s acute smile.] 
Raiden     : Okay, let's go! 
[Outside of the Shell 2 core Raiden makes it to a security level 5 door.  He doesn't have a card to make it through and the door buzzes in denial.  Raiden punches the door.] 
Raiden     : Dammit! 
Emma       : What's wrong? 
Raiden     : This door is security level five... I don't have card five. Damn. 
[Emma looks at her ID card.] 
Emma       : Giving up already? 
She takes it off and holds it forward. 
Emma       : Tah-DAH! 
Raiden     : What the...? 
Emma       : Are you impressed? 
Raiden     : You should have told me you had it. 
Emma       : Well the truth is... I just remembered it myself.  
[Raiden and Emma make it to a hatch in the floor that goes to the oil fence. When Raiden opens it air rushes out and he looks down.  He contacts Emma on the Codec.] 
Raiden     : I have a question for you. How do you feel about heights? 
Emma       : I can't say I like heights... though water's higher on my phobia list. Why? 
Raiden     : Well... we have to go down a ladder. 
Emma       : How far down? 
Raiden     : Just a little bit... 
Emma       : Why do I feel like we've had this conversation before? How little is little? 
Raiden     : ...About 130 feet? 
Emma       : ... 
Raiden     : Think you can do it? 
 
Raiden     : How are your legs? 
Emma       : Better. The numbness is gone. I can climb down on my own. 
Raiden     : Okay... follow me. 
[They climb down and reach the bottom.  Emma stops at the bottom to look at the sun setting.] 
Emma       : The sunset, it's beautiful. 
Raiden     : If we don't hurry, it'll be the last we see. 
[Raiden scans the defensive forces around the oil fence.] 
Raiden     : Enemy soldiers... Gun Cyphers... I don't think were gonna be able to slip past all that. 
[He looks warily at the bridge.] 
Raiden     : Looks like it can barely support one person. How much do you weigh, Emma? 
Emma       : Are you gonna ask me how old I am next? 
Raiden     : If you go alone, I think you can make it across. 
[Raiden contacts Snake.] 
Raiden     : This is Raiden, do you read me? 
Snake      : Yeah. What's up? 
Raiden     : We've made it to the lower part of Strut L. We'll have to cross the water from here. 
Snake      : Can Emma walk? 
Raiden     : She's okay. The pontoon bridge doesn't look too sturdy. Emma is going to have to cross it alone. 
Snake      : Right... the oil fence -- 
Raiden     : There's Cyphers and several guards. 
Snake      : Raiden, you're carrying a PSG1, aren't you? It's time to play sniper. 
Raiden     : Not bad. This spot gives me a good view of the targets. 
Snake      : You're going to have to cover Emma until she crosses to Strut E. I'll get there and provide some support of my own. 
Raiden     : Thanks. 
Snake      : Think you can handle it? 
Raiden     : Yeah. I know the drill. I've faced a similar situation in Advanced Mode Level 4 VR training with the PSG1. 
Snake      : VR...? Guess that's better than nothing. Make sure you don't hit Emma. 
Raiden     : Right now, with Arsenal's boarding in progress, security should be at a minimum. 
Snake      : That doesn't mean it's going to be easy. Given the situation, they've probably got Claymores in place to make up for the security shortage. Make sure you use your thermal goggles. 
Raiden     : Okay. I'm heading for Strut E. 
[Raiden switches to Emma's frequency.] 
Raiden     : Emma, are you reading me? 
Emma       : Loud and clear... 
Raiden     : I'm gonna clear a path for you from here. 
Emma       : How? 
Raiden     : Sniper fire. 
Emma       : You're kidding... 
Raiden     : Trust me. 
Emma       : What if I fall into the sea? I... I can't swim! 
Raiden     : You were doing pretty good a few minutes ago. 
Emma       : Okay. 
Raiden     : Think you can do it? 
 
Raiden     : No. 
Raiden     : Alright, get going. You'll be fine. 
[Emma walks across the bridge.  When she is about halfway across Snake calls up.  Codec screen.] 
Snake      : This is Snake. Can you hear me? 
Raiden     : Yeah. Nice and clear. 
Snake      : I've reached my sniping position on Strut E. I'll provide support fire from here. 
Raiden     : Right. Do me a favor and take out whatever I miss. 
Snake      : Just call me when you want me to shoot. 
[Snake and Raiden track Emma with their scopes and take out any threats. Raiden scans ahead but at the very edge of the scope there is a sudden movement.  Vamp has just appeared out of nowhere.  Vamp leaps backwards behind Emma and holds a knife to her neck.] 
Emma       : No. 
[Raiden acts quickly and fires a shot directly into Vamp's cerebrum. He falls backwards into the water, screaming. Emma turns around, disoriented. She suddenly falls to the ground as blood starts to seep through her shirt. Snake rushes down to help her. On his way he quickly takes out two Cyphers. He checks to see if Emma is still alive.  He picks her up and carries her away.] 
Snake      : Raiden! Emma's been stabbed! 
Raiden     : That bastard! 
Otacon     : How bad is it!? 
Snake      : She's conscious... but the bleeding's bad. I'm bringing her over there right now! 
Otacon     : E.E.... 
Snake      : Raiden! Get that disc over here as soon as possible. I'm afraid her time's running out... 
Raiden     : I'll be there! 
[Raiden dashes across the oil fence.  When he reaches the other side he contacts Snake.] 
Raiden     : Snake, what's your situation over there? 
Snake      : Emma seems to be uh... doing something to GW's defensive capabilities. All we need now is your disc. You'd better hurry -- I don't think she's gonna make it. 
Raiden     : How's the bleeding? 
Snake      : She's... Just get over here. You'll find the coast is clear with everybody aboard Arsenal right now. 
Raiden     : Understood.  
[Raiden makes it to the computer room quickly.  When he arrives he finds Emma lying on the floor with some heavy bandages on her torso.  Snake is standing at a respectful distance while Otacon attends to Emma.  Raiden comes up to Snake.] 
Raiden     : How's Emma? 
Snake      : I think he got some internal organs... We can't stop the bleeding... 
[Emma looks at Otacon and raises her hand slowly.] 
Emma       : H... Hal? 
[Otacon quickly takes her hand.] 
Otacon     : I'm here. 
[Snake leans over to Raiden.] 
Snake      : Got the disc? 
[Raiden takes out the disc and hands it to Snake.] 
Snake      : Emma set everything up. Apparently all you have to do is pop in the disc. 
[Snake inserts the disc into one of the computer's slots.] 
Snake      : Um... that should insert the virus into the AI... 
[Something happens onscreen, it looks like the virus is loading.] 
Raiden     : Is it working? 
Snake      : Just leave it to Emma. 
[Something pops up on screen, the loading has stopped.] 
Snake      : What the -- !? 
Otacon     : An antibody agent? 
Snake      : Damn! The connections been cut! 
Raiden     : Has the virus been uploaded? 
Snake      : I don't think so. The counts stopped at 90%. Otacon...? 
Otacon     : I don't think Emma's made any mistakes... 
Raiden     : But... 
Otacon     : Portions of the worm cluster must have been altered after the disc left Emma's hands. 
Raiden     : By the Patriots? 
Snake      : Will the virus still work? 
Otacon     : I have no idea... 
Emma       : Hal... is... everything all right? 
[Otacon isn't sure what to say.  He looks up at Snake.  Snake quickly shakes his head, everything is not alright.  Otacon looks back down.] 
Otacon     : Uh... It's alright... is everything's alright. 
Emma       : Good... At least I... I won't be adding... another page to... our family's dark... history... 
Otacon     : Yeah... that's right... 
[Raiden leans over to Snake.] 
Raiden     : What if that virus doesn't work? 
Snake      : Either destroy that thing, or take out Solidus and his men. 
Raiden     : How do we get on board? 
Snake      : I don't think we can, unless somebody inside gives us a hand. 
Emma       : Hal... I... I always... 
Otacon     : What is it? 
Emma       : ...wanted to see you again. 
[An outside view of the Big Shell.] 
Otacon     : You don't hate me? 
Emma       : Never... I never wanted to get in your way... I never wanted to hurt you... I thought with Arsenal... If I follow in your footsteps... I could be closer... I just wanted you to look at me... look at me... as a woman... 
Otacon     : E.E... I could never do that... 
Emma       : Don't be so honest... It ...hurts... 
Otacon     : Sorry... 
Emma       : Can I... can I ask you one more favor...? 
Otacon     : Sure. 
 
Otacon     : What? 
Emma       : Please call me... Emma. 
[Emma gingerly removes Otacon's glasses.] 
Otacon     : What's wrong with E.E.? 
[Emma goes limp.  Otacon's glasses clatter to the floor.] 
Otacon     : Emma... Emma? Emma!? Emma!? Answer me! 
[Otacon bursts into tears.  Snake and Raiden look on but don't try to console him.  An outside view of the Big Shell.] 
Otacon     : I didn't... I didn't mean to hurt you. Because of the accident, I had... I had a relationship with your mother. She seduced me... and it went on... My father's death was no accident, he took his own life... It was my fault. All my fault. Forgive me, Emma... 
[Otacon cries more.  Suddenly the parrot speaks.] 
Parrot     : Hal. 
[After glancing at the parrot Otacon slowly closes Emma's eyes.  He walks over to the parrot.  He opens the cage and takes it out.] 
Parrot     : Hal. 
[Otacon starts crying again.  There is an announcement over the PA.] 
Announcer  : Attention! All Arsenal Gear is ready for launch. Evacuate the upper levels immediately! 
Snake      : Sounds like they're cutting this place loose! 
Raiden     : What do you mean? 
Otacon     : It means were gonna sink... 
Snake      : We have to get the hostages out. 
Raiden     : What about the Kamov repairs? 
Otacon     : Done. 
Raiden     : We won't be able to get everybody aboard... 
Snake      : We'll just have to take as many as we can. 
[Otacon hesitates.] 
Otacon     : My sister... won't be able to come with us. 
[The announcer says something else.] 
Announcer  : We will be commencing the countdown shortly... All personnel in the upper levels head for the evacuation area immediately. 
[Flashback to MGS.  Sniper Wolf's death.] 
Otacon     : I'm always the survivor... Why, Wolf? 
[Snake looks assuringly at Otacon.] 
Snake      : Otacon, take care of the hostages. 
Otacon     : What about you guys? 
Snake      : We've got other arrangements... 
[Snake looks at the elevator down to Arsenal Gear.] 
Snake      : There's our ride out of here. Anyway, we're gonna have to sink that thing of the virus doesn't work. 
Otacon     : I should be going with you. 
Snake      : You've got your job, we've got ours. 
Otacon     : You mean... I'd only get in your way. 
Snake      : Wrong. 
[Snake rests his hands on Otacon's shoulders.] 
Snake      : Only you can save those hostages. Got it? 
Otacon     : Right. Listen, the two of you won't be able to destroy that thing. Eliminate the enemy, that's your only option. 
[Otacon walks away.  Raiden and Snake follow him.] 
[They reach the elevator.] 
Parrot     : Hal... 
[Otacon can't contain himself any more.  He bangs his fist against the door of the elevator.] 
Otacon     : Damn. 
Snake      : Listen, Otacon, pull yourself together. You've got a job to do. 
Otacon     : You're right... 
[Snake and Otacon do a complicated handshake and when they are done they embrace.] 
Announcer  : I repeat, personnel in the upper levels head to the evacuation areas immediately. 
[They pull away.] 
Snake      : I'm counting on you, Otacon. 
[Otacon leaves with the parrot.  He reaches the main elevator of the Shell 1 Core.] 
Parrot     : Hal... Hal... I miss you... I miss you... 
[Otacon loses control again.  He falls to the ground.] 
Otacon     : You and me, we're the same. 
[Outside views.] 
Otacon     : Both you and I... we we're always alone... always... We just wanted to be loved... We were waiting -- waiting for somebody... somebody who would love us... But we were wrong... You can't wait to be loved, you have to go out and find it. Four years ago... I realized you can't wish for happiness, you have to make it happen... I wish I knew that sooner. I learned that I could love...as you probably did... Emma... 
[Snake and Raiden are looking at the elevator to Arsenal Gear.] 
Raiden     : He's gonna be OK? 
Snake      : He's tougher than he looks, consider it done. 
[Snake gives Raiden a disc.] 
Raiden     : Now, how do we open this thing? 
[Snake looks at the ceiling.] 
Snake      : You can come out now. 
[The ninja drops down the floor gracefully.] 
Raiden     : A ninja!? What the -- ? 
Mr. X      : Arsenal is going to take off. 
[The ninja takes out his sword.] 
Mr. X      : But we still need to take care of a few things... This time, do not fail us. 
[He plants his feet and raises the sword.] 
Raiden     : Snake, what's this all about!? 
Snake      : Bedtime, Raiden. 
[Raiden makes a move for his gun.  The ninja quickly places his sword against Raiden's neck.] 
Snake      : I wouldn't do that. 
Raiden     : Your changing sides now!? 
Snake      : Change sides? I don't recall saying I was on yours. 
Raiden     : Damn it. 
[Mr. X slowly raises his hand to the top of his head.  He pushes something and his visor goes transparent.] 
Raiden     : You! 
[Olga stares at him.] 
Olga       : Ready for some shut-eye? 
[Raiden tries to move out of the way but Olga's sword comes down and strikes him hard.  An electric current passes through his body.  Raiden falls to the floor.] 
[Outside, the Big Shell begins to fall into the ocean.  Water rushes through all the corridors and breaks into the computer room where Emma lies.  In a moment Otacon is flying above the Big Shell in the Kasatka.  There is an enormous shadow cast on the ocean by an unseen building. 
[Rose calls Raiden on the Codec.] 
Rose       : Jack? Are you reading me? Do you want to save your mission data up to this point? 
[Data is saved.] 
Rose       : Your mission data's been saved. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 09)  Bare nak3d infiltration
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[There is a bright but blurry light coming from above.  There are voices talking.] 
Solidus    : Is he still alive? 
Ocelot     : He was when Olga brought him in. I've checked everything including the Genome data, but there's nothing on this guy. NSA, CIA, FBI... He doesn't exist in any database. He's a nonexistent operative from a nonexistent organization. 
Solidus    : I suspected as much. However, I know this man... Wake him up. 
Ocelot     : ? 
[The platform that Raiden is on lowers to face the people standing in front of him.  In front of him are Solidus and Ocelot.  Solidus now has two tentacle attachments on his exoskeleton.] 
Solidus    : It's been a while, hasn't it...? Jack the Ripper. 
Ocelot     : You know this fellow? 
Solidus    : You remember me, don't you? You've grown... 
[Solidus reaches out with one of his tentacles and grabs Raiden around the neck.  The other hovers in front of his face.] 
Solidus    : High concentration of cerebral implants... Have they altered your memory too? 
Raiden     : Aaaaarrgghhh! 
[Solidus releases his grip and steps back.  Raiden is shown for the first time. He is strapped to a machine that looks strikingly similar to the torture device in Shadow Moses.  Raiden is stripped completely naked.] 
Solidus    : This is my son... I taught him everything. Jack... I never thought I'd see you again... 
Raiden     : You... know me...? 
Solidus    : You don't remember...? Your name... your skills... everything you know... you know from me. 
[Pictures of Raiden as a young person are shown.] 
Solidus    : The eighties... the civil war. You were one of the best among the child soldiers that fought in that conflict. When you were barely ten years old, you became the leader of the small boys unit. At  the time, your outstanding kill record earned you several nicknames including White Devil and Jack the Ripper.  Jack... I was your godfather, I named you. When the war ended, you disappeared from the relief center. I wondered what happened to you... I should've known they would recruit you. 
[In the torture room.] 
Ocelot     : It's a interesting coincidence. 
Solidus    : If he's a lackey for the Patriots I doubt he knows anything of interest. 
Ocelot     : What should we do with him? 
Solidus    : We'll use him like you suggested... 
Ocelot     : What about Dead Cell? 
Solidus    : Ignore them. 
[Ocelot's arm twitches.] 
Solidus    : Happening again? 
Ocelot     : Could it be he's here too? 
Solidus    : Hmph. In another hour, we'll demonstrate the power of Arsenal Gear. 
Ocelot     : Attack with standard weapons, of course. 
Solidus    : Yes, proceed as planned. 
 
Solidus    : Hm. How about the troops? 
Ocelot     : The men have been fitted with Arsenal Gear equipment as ordered. 
[Ocelot takes a look at Solidus' eye patch.] 
Ocelot     : You know, your the spitting image of Big Boss... 
[Solidus laughs out loud.] 
Solidus    : Is that so? Perhaps I should be grateful to this kid for that. 
[Solidus eaves the room.] 
Ocelot     : This situation... I find it very... nostalgic. 
Raiden     : Where am I? 
Ocelot     : Why, inside Arsenal Gear of course. Actually, were also inside the memory of Shadow Moses. 
[Ocelot holds up the disc that Raiden had in his pocket.] 
Ocelot     : I'll take this back. You won't be needing this anymore. 
[Olga enters the room and sees Ocelot.  She huffs and turns her back to him.] 
Ocelot     : A foul wind is blowing, we shall speak again. 
[Ocelot walks out of the room.] 
Olga       : Don't move... stay as you are... we're being monitored by a camera. 
Raiden     : What are you up to? 
Olga       : I'm switching over to nanocommunications... 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Mr. X...? Ninja...? 
Olga       : Correct... it's me. 
Raiden     : I thought you were the leader of the Russian troops... 
Olga       : No. That was just a smoke screen. 
Raiden     : A smoke screen? 
Olga       : I was sent to provide you support. 
Raiden     : Support? Who sent you? The Colonel? 
Olga       : No... the Patriots. 
Raiden     : What!? 
Olga       : I... I deceived my troops... betrayed them... 
Raiden     : But why? 
Olga       : My child is... being held hostage by the Patriots. It all started two years ago when I lost my father during the tanker incident... My men and I had nowhere to go... so we joined forces with an illegal Russian organization. 
Raiden     : The Russian Mafia? 
Olga       : Something like that. Actually, I learned much later that it was a subordinate organization of the Patriots. I was expecting at the time. When I gave birth to my child, it turned out I was in a hospital run by the Patriots. In the morning... my child was gone. My baby is being kept somewhere in this country. 
Raiden     : Have you ever met your child? 
Olga       : No. Once a month, they send me a photo of my child via network. I've never even held the child in my own arms... 
Raiden     : I see... Given your situation, nobody can blame you for what you did. 
Olga       : That's your opinion... 
Raiden     : What about Snake? I thought you were enemies... 
Olga       : He wasn't responsible for my father's death. Actually, we owe him our lives. 
[Flashback to the tanker.] 
Olga       : Two years ago, they were responsible for getting us out of the sinking tanker alive... 
Raiden     : So you were partners since the incident? 
Olga       : No. I only found out the truth shortly before this. When I confronted him here... 
Raiden     : You fought with Snake!? When? 
Olga       : Well... it was around the time you were holding hands with that girl. 
Raiden     : Snake... 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : So you joined hands with him to pay back a debt? 
Olga       : No. Mutual gain... 
Raiden     : Mutual gain? 
Olga       : My job was to assist you. If Solidus gets away with Arsenal, your mission is a failure. The Patriots would judge that as failure on my part and terminate my child. Putting it simply, my child's life depends on your success. 
Raiden     : So you did it all for your child. But why would the Patriots want to help me? Are they hoping I'll take Solidus out? 
Olga       : No. You're just like me... we're just pawns... 
Raiden     : Pawns for what purpose? 
Olga       : The S3 Plan... 
Raiden     : Huh? 
Olga       : You'll figure it out sooner or later -- but I wonder if you'll handle the truth? Listen... we haven't got time for this. Solidus will commence his attack any minute. He's got to be stopped. 
Raiden     : What about the virus? 
Olga       : No results so far. I think the Patriots have tampered with the program. 
Raiden     : Will it work? 
Olga       : I don't know... 
Raiden     : Get me out of this thing. 
Olga       : Not yet. I'll release your restraints after I leave this room. 
Raiden     : Where's my gear? 
Olga       : Snake's got everything. I couldn't bring it here. 
Raiden     : And where do I find Snake? 
[The inside of Arsenal is shown.] 
Olga       : The passageway ahead leads to a hangar. He'll be waiting for you there. I gave him a cardkey for the hangar. 
Raiden     : Does Snake plan to destroy Arsenal Gear? 
Olga       : No. Even for Snake, that's impossible to destroy the whole thing. You'll have to stop Solidus and his men. 
Raiden     : What are you going to do? 
Olga       : Stay concealed -- that's my role. I still can't afford to be discovered... 
[Torture room.] 
Raiden     : Olga -- you can't keep this up -- they're bound to find you. 
Olga       : Listen, I'll make it through this alive. Brace yourself... 
[Olga punches Raiden in the stomach hard.] 
Raiden     : Ugh. 
[Raiden watches her leave the room. He sits there for a while until Rose calls him.] 
Rose       : Jack, are you all right? 
Raiden     : Oh, y-yeah. 
Rose       : Jack, is it true? What Solidus said? 
Raiden     : ...Yes. 
Rose       : It's unbelievable... 
Rose       : Drafting small children, sending them to war -- it's not allowed under international conventions. 
Raiden     : ICC rules don't mean a lot in war. Someone told me that there are over three hundred thousand children in combat right now. I was just one of them... 
Rose       : So you remember? I thought your memory had been... manipulated by them. 
Raiden     : It was -- but I have nightmares every day, pieces of the past I can't put together... 
Rose       : Why didn't you tell me? 
Raiden     : You couldn't begin to understand. 
Rose       : You wouldn't know that until you try me. 
Raiden     : I didn't want you to get hurt. There was never a real reason for me to fight, except that someone put a gun in my hand. And that someone was him... 
Rose       : It wasn't your fault. 
Raiden     : If I survived the day's fight, I was praised, fed, and had a bed to sleep in. I think I was only six when I held my first AK, but I'm not even sure of that. I'm not like Snake, I never questioned why we fought. There was no purpose, no way out. They give you a gun, you ask how many to kill. If you didn't, you were the one they shot instead. 
Rose       : It's OK. No one is blaming you. 
Raiden     : We were shown Hollywood action films every day. The kind with macho guys and big guns. They call it image training. They -- they built us from the ground up, into killing machines... We were fed once a day. I can still taste the gunpowder they mixed into the food. 
Rose       : Gunpowder? In the food? 
Raiden     : The gunpowder had toluene in it, giving it hallucinogenic  properties. It kept us drugged, controllable. 
Rose       : Oh, my God... 
[Rose begins to cry.] 
Raiden     : When the civil war ended, those of us who survived were taken in by NGO's. They gave me a new life in the States. I can't complain. But nothing's changed. The only people who have no problem with my past have secrets and agendas of their own... Terrible nightmares -- every night. I can never forget... 
Rose       : Jack... 
Raiden     : I'm afraid of the night. That's why I don't sleep next to you. 
Rose       : You should have told me... 
Raiden     : Told you what? That I'm a killer and always have been? 
Rose       : No, no. 
Raiden     : What I hate more than anything else in the world is my own past. I didn't want you -- or anyone -- to know about it. Now I know why I was chosen for this mission. No one can take him on -- take him down -- except me. I've been kept alive this long for this. I knew, as soon as I saw Solidus. 
Rose       : Jack, I love you the way you are now. You have to believe me. I didn't know anything about you, I admit that. Where you were born, how you grew up -- but I know that now. And I know that what I feel for you can only get better, and I'll share in your past if that's the price. 
Raiden     : It doesn't work that way. No one can share the burden of what I've done. It's not one of those warm and fuzzy things couples  share. 
Rose       : I accept the good and the bad, Jack. That's what you do for someone you love. 
Raiden     : I don't want to share my past with anyone. I just want to forget about it. 
Rose       : Jack? I haven't told you -- you know, about what I've done... 
Raiden     : The last two years with you -- it's been more than I've ever hoped for. But I can't go any farther. I know you want to get married. But -- I can't. I can't risk starting a family. There's no way to erase my childhood. 
Rose       : It's all right, Jack. Please, don't say any more... 
[End transmission.  Raiden's bonds are released and he jumps down.  He exits the room and receives a call from the Colonel.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, do you copy. You must continue your m-mission. 
Raiden     : I've lost all my gear. I need to locate Snake. 
Colonel    : He was never factored into the simulation. Leave him out of this. 
Raiden     : I can't do much naked, especially in this temperature. 
Colonel    : That's true -- you won't be able to attack or enter the hanging mode, either. 
Raiden     : I think Snake has my gear. 
Colonel    : Raiden, take out Solidus and his men. You must recover Arsenal intact. 
Raiden     : Colonel, are you under orders from the Patriots? 
Colonel    : Your role -- that is, mission -- is to infiltrate the structure and disarm the terrorists -- 
Raiden     : My role? Why do you keep saying that. 
Colonel    : Why not? This is a type of role-playing game. The point is that you play out your part -- and I expect you to turn in a perfect performance! 
Raiden     : Colonel, I just remembered something. 
Colonel    : What? 
Raiden     : That I've never met you in person. Not once. 
Colonel    : ... Complete your mission according to the simulation! 
Raiden     : Colonel, who are you? 
Colonel    : No more questions. We have Rosemary. 
Raiden     : What do you mean by that! 
Colonel    : Over and out. 
[End transmission.  Raiden moves ahead but he is interrupted again by the Colonel.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, turn the game console off right now! 
Raiden     : What did you say? 
Colonel    : The mission is a failure! Cut the power right now! 
Raiden     : What's wrong with you? 
Colonel    : Don't worry, it's a game! It's a game just like usual. 
Rose       : You'll ruin your eyes playing so close to the TV. 
Raiden     : What are you talking about!? 
Colonel    : Raiden, something happened to me last Thursday when I was driving home. I had a couple of miles to go -- I looked up and saw a  glowing orange object in the sky, to the east! It was moving very irregularly... Suddenly, there was intense light all around me -- and when I came to, I was home. What do you think happened to me? 
Raiden     : What? 
Colonel    : Fine, forget it... 
 
Raiden     : Hi Rose. 
Rose       : Jack -- I owe you an apology. 
Raiden     : If it's about that conversation just now, I'm the one who's sorry. 
Rose       : No, it's something else. That day at Federal Hall two years ago -- it wasn't a coincidence. I was ordered to keep an eye on you... 
Raiden     : Keep an eye on me? 
Rose       : Yes -- by the Patriots. 
Raiden     : You're a spy. 
Rose       : I suppose. Yes. It's an ugly word. 
Raiden     : ... 
Rose       : Are you still there? 
Raiden     : Was sleeping with me a part of the job? 
Rose       : I fell in love with you... 
Raiden     : How could anyone -- 
Rose       : I can't excuse what I did. I've reported every detail of your personal life to them these two years. What you did, said, everything... 
Raiden     : Must've been fun. 
Rose       : But some things I didn't tell anyone! Like what I felt for you. 
Raiden     : So that's why you were involved in this mission. I should have known. Why else would they toss an analyst into the mix at the last minute? 
Rose       : I'm sorry, I know what I did was wrong... 
Raiden     : No matter where I go - I get used. 
Rose       : I reinvented myself to suit your tastes. Hairstyle, clothes, the way I move, things I talked about... You say you love the color of my hair, my eyes. They're not even real. 
Raiden     : You must have gone over my psych profile with a fine-tooth comb. 
Rose       : It was my job. 
Raiden     : Great performance -- had me completely fooled. 
Rose       : What I really wanted was for you to see the real me. It hurt to play out this -- this artificial romance. It was worse to lie to myself than to you. The more love you gave me, the more it hurt -- because I knew the person you loved was just a character. 
Raiden     : So it was artificial on my end too. It was just a game, not the real thing. I feel better knowing that. I was in love -- or thought I was -- with someone who didn't exist. I was trying to be someone I wasn't by loving what wasn't real. I don't know who you really are. The person I knew isn't real; she's not the woman I'm talking to right now. In a sense, the deception was my own, not theirs. 
Rose       : Jack, I thought I was acting, because that was my job. But I did fall in love with you, that wasn't an act. 
Raiden     : You expect me to believe that? It's okay. You had your reasons, right? Hey, I understand. But I have nothing left to... 
[Rose interrupts but this time her voice is distorted.] 
Rose       : Jack!! I'm...I'm carrying... I'm pregnant, Jack. Your baby. 
Raiden     : Rose? What's going on? 
[End transmission.  As Raiden moves forward Snake calls out from behind him.] 
Snake      : It's amazing you can walk around like that. 
Raiden     : Snake! 
Snake      : Been waiting long? 
Raiden     : Ah-choo!! 
[Raiden sneezes.] 
Raiden     : Where's my gear? 
Snake      : Right over there. 
[Snake jerks his thumb over his shoulder o point at a crate.  Raiden dresses himself.] 
Snake      : That's more like it. Everything you had when you were captured is still there. 
[Snake taps his ear, signaling to stay quiet and use his Codec.] 
Snake      : Sorry about earlier. I had to use you as bait to gain access to Arsenal. It worked. 
Raiden     : Why didn't you tell me about Olga? 
Snake      : You never asked. 
Raiden     : ... 
Snake      : Not happy about that? Get over it. 
Raiden     : ...any effects of the virus yet? 
Snake      : Still waiting on that. 
Raiden     : So it was rigged by the Patriots? 
Snake      : Looks like it. From what I can tell, Arsenal is headed for Manhattan. I don't know what Solidus is planning, but we'll have to deal with it one way or another. There's also a troop of production-model Rays ahead. 
Raiden     : How many units? 
Snake      : Twenty-five, according to Olga. 
Raiden     : Twenty-five!? 
Snake      : Yeah. Can't say I've faced that many Metal Gears before, but -- I think we can deal. 
Raiden     : No way we can... 
Snake      : We can because we have no other choice. I've stocked up on Stinger missiles. Oh yeah, Olga left this for you. 
[Off of the Codec.  Snake hands a sheathed sword to Raiden.] 
Raiden     : Why? 
Snake      : Olga asked me to give it to you. Besides, I'm not a big fan of blades. 
[Raiden practices with the sword for a few minutes to get the feel of it. Then Snake decides to leave.] 
Snake      : Come on, time to go. 
[Raiden sheaths the sword.] 
Snake      : If you run out of ammo, you can have mine. 
Raiden     : You got enough? 
Snake      : Absolutely. 
[Snake places the tip of his thumb on his bandana.] 
Snake      : Infinite ammo. 
[He makes a small smile.] 
Raiden     : Wait up, Snake. 
Snake      : What? 
[Codec screen.] 
Raiden     : Snake, have you ever -- enjoyed killing someone? I'm not sure. Sometimes it's hard to tell the difference between reality and a game... 
Snake      : Diminished sense of reality, huh? VR training will do that. 
Raiden     : No, it was field training, when I was a kid. I lied, Snake. I have more field experience than I can remember. It's not VR that's doing this to me. 
Snake      : Raiden, we don't carry guns to take people down. We're not here to help some politician either. 
Raiden     : You can say that because you're a legend, a hero. I'm Jack the Ripper, a dirty reminder -- of a terrible mistake. 
Snake      : Legends don't mean a whole lot. I was just a name to exploit. Just like you. People will remember only the good part, the right part of what you did. 
Raiden     : There's no right part in murder, not ever. 
Snake      : And we're not in this to make a name for ourselves. 
Raiden     : Then what are you and Otacon fighting for? 
Snake      : A future. 
Snake      : You can stop being part of a mistake, starting now. 
Raiden     : What am I -- what am I supposed to do? 
[Snake and Raiden move through a door with their guns drawn.] 
Snake      : Find something to believe in. And find it for yourself. And when you do, pass it on to the future. 
Raiden     : Believe in what? 
Snake      : That's your problem. 
[Raiden hesitates.] 
Snake      : Come on! 
[Otacon calls Snake and Raiden.] 
Otacon     : Snake, Raiden! 
Snake      : Otacon! You all right? 
Otacon     : Yeah. So are all the hostages. 
Otacon     : How's everything on your end? 
Raiden     : All right for now. But there is something -- The Colonel's last transmission was strange. 
Otacon     : Strange? How? 
Raiden     : Just -- strange. No idea -- 
Otacon     : Interference? 
Raiden     : I don't know. 
Otacon     : Where is this Colonel? 
Raiden     : I don't know. I've never met the man, actually... 
Otacon     : ...I'll dig around. 
Raiden     : Thanks. I owe you one. 
Otacon     : If there's anything else, call me on the Codec, I might be able to help. 
[They get spotted by a Cypher and have to battle their way through a squad of Arsenal Tengus.  When they reach the next room Otacon calls them again.] 
Otacon     : Raiden? About this Colonel of yours -- I found out where he is. 
Raiden     : Where? 
Otacon     : Inside Arsenal. 
Raiden     : ? 
Otacon     : I've checked out all the possibilities, but I keep coming back to Arsenal. It isn't a relay point, it's the origin of the signal. And, the encryption protocol it uses is exactly the same as that of Arsenal's AI -- the so-called GW. 
Raiden     : ...What the hell does this mean? 
Otacon     : I think it means -- you've been talking to an AI. 
Raiden     : That's impossible! 
Otacon     : The Colonel probably isn't GW per se. GW was most likely stimulating cortical activity in the dormant part of your brain through signal manipulation of your own nanomachines. The Colonel is in part your own creation, cobbled together from expectations and experience... 
Raiden     : That's crazy... 
Otacon     : But it's probably the truth. The virus may be starting to affect GW, which would explain the Colonel's behavior. 
Raiden     : It was all -- an illusion? Everything I've done so far...? 
Snake      : Raiden! 
Raiden     : Snake -- what's happening around here? 
Snake      : I don't know. What I do know is that you're standing right here in front of me. Not an illusion -- flesh and blood. It's your call. You can drop this if you want. 
Raiden     : No, I can't do that. Let's go... 
[Shortly after they get another call from the Colonel.] 
Colonel    : Raiden! They've got Rose! Rose is being held in the holds! 
Snake      : It's a trap! 
Rose       : Help! 
Raiden     : Rose! 
Snake      : Raiden, get a grip! 
Raiden     : But Snake! 
Snake      : It's a trap. Since the Colonel doesn't exist, there's no way he can take Rose hostage. 
Raiden     : Yeah -- you're right... 
Snake      : I am right. 
Raiden     : ...OK. But... Does Rose -- exist -- ? 
Snake      : Don't be weird. She's your -- 
Raiden     : What if I've never really met her... If the Colonel is something that I partly dreamt up, then... everything I remember about her could be... 
Snake      : Don't jump to conclusions! 
Raiden     : You and Otacon are the ones that say the Colonel never existed. Is this what Olga was talking about? 
[in the next room they are attacked by about 25 or so Arsenal Tengus.  Quickly killing all of them they look around the room for more.  Suddenly Fortune strides into the room with her still menacing looking rail gun.] 
Raiden     : Fortune... 
Fortune    : It's been a long wait, Solid Snake -- the root of all my sorrows. 
Snake      : What? 
Fortune    : Two years ago, you killed my father. That was the beginning of hell for us. Everyone I love has been taken from me, one by one... and no matter how hard I try, I can't follow them. An endless nightmare... The only thing we live for is to see it end. Our wait is almost over. 
Raiden     : You can't be serious about firing the nuke! 
Fortune    : Since no one can kill me, I may as well kill everyone I can. 
[She starts to charge up her gun.] 
Fortune    : Starting with you, Solid Snake! 
Raiden     : Damn! 
Snake      : Looks like I'm today's pick. You go on ahead. 
[Raiden hesitates and holsters his gun. He starts to walk towards the ladder.] 
Snake      : You want eternal rest? I've got it right here. 
[Raiden reaches the ladder. He puts one hand and one foot on the rungs and he turns back towards Snake.] 
Raiden     : What are you going to do? Bullets can't get near her. 
Snake      : I'll think of something. There's no such thing as a witch. 
Fortune    : You think you can kill me? 
Snake      : I don't know what your group's been through, but let's get one thing clear... I didn't kill your father. 
Fortune    : Do you think anyone believes your lies!? 
Snake      : Raiden, get out of here! 
[As Raiden climbs the ladder to an unknown destination Snake and Fortune begin their battle.  Snake starts unloading bullets at Fortune and lets out a loud yell that could only come from a man that is facing certain death.] 
Snake      : UNHh!! 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 10)  Even my patience has its limits
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Raiden reaches the top of the ladder and arrives in a huge circular arena that appears to be out in the open, atop Arsenal perhaps.  he looks around but sees absolutely nothing.  Suddenly Solidus' voice booms out from nowhere.] 
Solidus    : Jack, I've been watching how you fight. It looks like you've remembered the way you used to kill in the old days! Or is it one of the S3 Plan's proud achievements? 
[Raiden whirls around wildly and screams.] 
Raiden     : What are you talking about!? 
Solidus    : It came as a complete surprise when Ocelot discovered the S3 data from GW. Not a bad idea, though -- using fire to fight fire, creating the perfect assassin to retire Solid Snake's brother.  S3 stands for Solid Snake Simulation... It's a development program to artificially reproduce Solid Snake, the perfect warrior. The result is a FOXHOUND commando. When FOXHOUND no longer exists, a simulated Solid Snake shaped by VR regimen. Sound like someone you know, Jack?  I'm sorry to see you reduced to one of the Patriots' puppets. But I've made use of you and their plan, too. Solid Snake's sudden appearance, your arrival -- it was obvious the Patriots were among my ranks. I had to smoke out the agent before the mission entered the final phase. You came in handy as bait.  Jack, those days during the civil war were as real as they come... Every day was absolute, split between life and death. You ran from it, and now, you've been lead back to war by something less than real. 
[Solidus appears out of nowhere, skidding on the platform and throwing up a  wave of sparks.  Raiden spins and points his gun at Raiden.] 
Solidus    : No more games, Raiden. At least you know. There's no reason to keep you alive now... 
[There is a loud noise.  Raiden turns and finds three Metal Gear Rays stomping towards him.] 
Solidus    : I've given you a worthy opponent at least. But now, you should die as the little Jackie boy I once knew. 
[Solidus leaves and Raiden now has to take out all the Metal Gear Ray units with his Stinger and stock of missiles.]  
[Raiden takes out a countless number of Ray units but as each one falls to the ground another Ray unit stomps in to take its place.  Raiden quickly tires and he falls to the ground in defeat.] 
Raiden     : It's no use... 
[The Rays surround Raiden.  Solidus speaks.] 
Solidus    : I expected a little more fight than that, Jack. 
[One of the Ray units begins to raise its leg to stomp on Raiden.  Before it can bring its leg down Olga Gurlukovich drops down in front of Raiden.  The Ray unit hesitates and then backs off.] 
Solidus    : So, you've decided to show yourself. 
Raiden     : Olga, don't do this. They'll know -- 
Olga       : I'll hold them off, give you time to get away. 
Raiden     : What about you? 
Olga       : ... 
Raiden     : This is suicide!! 
Olga       : Your nanomachines -- they're transmitting your vital signs to the Patriots. If you die, my child dies. Do you understand? 
Raiden     : The child... 
Solidus    : I see -- so that's why you sold your troops out to me. So many dead, and they all died trusting you! 
Olga       : ...! 
Solidus    : Weren't they your comrades? 
[Olga whips out a pistol.] 
Olga       : No, not just comrades! Family! 
Solidus    : Hah. 
Olga       : I know I'm going to hell. But at least my child -- 
Solidus    : I applaud your attitude. If you have a death wish... 
[Solidus charges in with a P90 in hand.] 
Solidus    : I'll be happy to accommodate you. See you in hell!! 
Olga       : HRRRRGH!! 
[Olga cocks her gun and tries to shoot Solidus but he knocks her gun out her hand with his tentacle arm and grabs her around the throat with it.  He spins his gun and aims it at her forehead.] 
Olga       : Live -- you have to -- 
[Solidus blows Olga's brains out.  Raiden tries to reach out but he falls to the ground.] 
Raiden     : OLGA!! 
[Solidus tosses Olga to the ground carelessly.] 
Solidus    : Enjoy the show, Jack? Let's pick up where we left off. 
[He waves his hand casually at the Rays and they advance forward but they begin to shake and their eyes turn red.] 
Solidus    : Hm? 
[They start to move in on Solidus instead of Raiden.] 
Solidus    : What's going on!? What's wrong with it!? 
[Ocelot speaks over a radio.] 
Ocelot     : The AI -- GW -- it's out of control. 
Solidus    : What? 
[A screen with some data steams on it is shown.  it looks like the virus is infecting GW.] 
Ocelot     : I'm reading an abnormal impulse cascade throughout the neural network. I can't shut it down! 
Solidus    : What happened! 
Ocelot     : Maybe -- some kind of virus -- 
Solidus    : The Patriots!? 
Ocelot     : I don't know! 
Solidus    : Ocelot! What have you been up to? 
Ocelot     : It's too late! Arsenal's system control is going haywire! ...It's on an emergency ascent course! 
[The Ray units attack Solidus.] 
Solidus    : Stupid machines! 
[Solidus activates his exoskeleton.] 
Solidus    : rrrRRAAAAH! 
[Solidus takes down all three Rays in a fashion that wreaks of badassedness. He stands atop on of the Rays and makes a declaration.] 
Solidus    : Damn the Patriots...! 
[Solidus returns to Raiden on the ground and picks him up.  He raises his gun to shoot but thinks better of it.] 
Solidus    : You still have some use... 
Fortune    : I've captured Snake. 
[Fortune and Snake walk in.  Snake is in handcuffs.] 
Raiden     : S...Snake? 
Solidus    : Bring him in. 
[Raiden passes out.] 
Raiden     : Ugh... 
[Raiden wakes up.  Ocelot, Fortune, Solidus and Snake are atop Arsenal Gear standing next to an inactive Metal Gear Ray.  Solidus speaks.] 
Solidus    : Are you awake yet, Jack? 
Raiden     : U-uh... 
Solidus    : GW, the Arsenal AI, is corrupted beyond repair. I admit I underestimated you... 
[Solidus turns to face Raiden.] 
Raiden     : U-uhn... 
Solidus    : I'll squeeze the answers out of you instead, my son... 
[Solidus grabs Raiden around the throat with his tentacle arms and squeezes. Raiden begins to choke.  After a little while Solidus lets go and drops Raiden to the ground.] 
Raiden     : U-uh...uhn... 
Fortune    : What do you hope to hear? You know he doesn't know anything. 
Solidus    : It's not him I want the answers from. 
Fortune    : What do you mean? 
Solidus    : That's not your business. 
Fortune    : Oh really? It so happens I have some business of my own to attend to. 
[Fortune turns and walks away.] 
Solidus    : Planning to hijack Arsenal? 
[Fortune stops in her tracks.] 
Solidus    : You were going to screw me over, weren't you? 
Fortune    : Who talked? Ocelot? 
Solidus    : Not exactly. I was the one who used Ocelot to suggest the idea to you in the first place. 
[Fortune slowly turns.] 
Fortune    : What? 
Solidus    : I was planning to give you Arsenal to begin with. 
Fortune    : ...Why the uncharacteristic generosity? 
Solidus    : I'm no philanthropist. Arsenal is far from impregnable. It needs other Metal Gears as guards, a huge payload of warheads, and full air, sea, and land support to function efficiently. Against a large attack force without support, Arsenal is nothing more than a gigantic coffin. Seizing Arsenal Gear was never the real objective! 
Fortune    : ...What was your objective, then? 
Solidus    : A list of names -- of the Patriots! 
Fortune    : !? 
[The black and white photos of the Patriots come on screen but this time instead of appearing one by one they disappear one by one.] 
Solidus    : They were planning to extend their control to digital information flow with GW and Arsenal. That means the information they want to filter out is contained in GW. Including that list of the highest twelve members of the Patriots' Wisemen's Committee. 
Fortune    : And once you knew who they were, you would cross out their name one by one... while we, with our useless Arsenal, drew their fire. 
Solidus    : Very good. 
Fortune    : You were using us all along. 
Solidus    : Were you any different? 
Fortune    : But your plan's hit a snag with GW destroyed, hasn't it? 
Solidus    : No -- there is another way. 
Fortune    : Really? But we have our own plans to carry out. We'll take the Arsenal since you don't care for it anyway. The purified hydrogen bomb is ready to go. 
Solidus    : A nuclear strike won't stop them. 
Fortune    : It will damage their power source -- the mindless masses that  they control. First things first. 
Solidus    : Of course -- that was what you wanted. I won't stop you. Good luck. 
Fortune    : Thanks, but I have quite enough of that. 
[Fortune begins to walk away again. This time she is interrupted by Ocelot laughing.] 
Fortune    : What exactly do you find so funny? 
Ocelot     : Charades usually are humorous. I wouldn't have minded watching some more of it but we're running a little short on time... 
Solidus    : What are you talking about? 
Ocelot     : Everything you've done here has been scripted -- a little exercise set up by us. 
Solidus    : Exercise!? 
Ocelot     : The S3 Plan was conceived as a means to produce soldiers on par with Solid Snake. That's what I told you. But the VR Training the boy was put through is not the meat of the project.  You think this terrorist incident is your own doing, Solidus? THIS is the S3 training kernel -- an orchestrated recreation of Shadow Moses. 
Solidus    : What!? 
[Some scenes form the game are shown.  There are scenes with both Raiden and Snake playing out the same exact parts.] 
Ocelot     : Ames and the President's deaths -- the computer virus that mimics FOXDIE. Did you really think they were all a coincidence? Ames' own nanomachines were used to shut down his pacemaker. I arranged for the appearance of the Ninja as well.  As for the President -- although Johnson realized what was going on, he played out his allotted part. As for the computer virus, it's a digital  counterpart of FOXDIE. It was also designed to eliminate every scrap of information regarding the Patriots from GW.  Your plan was invalidated even before execution, Solidus.  Fatman was a different story. He's one of our own people, a sort of examiner we hired to test the boy's progress before letting him tackle the exercise proper. We had to arrange for Stillman's presence to coax the maniac into agreeing. If the boy had allowed the Big Shell to be destroyed, this exercise would have ended there. The project has no room for failures. 
Solidus    : What do you mean!? 
Ocelot     : Given the right situation, the right story, anyone can be shaped into Snake. Even rookies can fight like men of experience. An instant creation of genius -- and this training kernel will provide more than enough data to formulate such a program. You, Dead Cell, Olga -- you're all nothing but pawns placed to create the perfect simulation. 
[Back atop Arsenal.] 
Ocelot     : Solidus, you and the boy were selected because your relationship resembles the one between Snake and Big Boss. Fortune, you and the rest of Dead Cell stand in for the FOXHOUND squad that Snake took on in Shadow Moses. You're the most impressive collection of freaks outside of FOXHOUND.  We've gone to a lot of trouble to set you up against the boy. That story about purified hydrogen bombs is just the tip of the iceberg. The project was already underway when I sunk that tanker along with your old man two years ago. Throwing your husband in the brig was a part of it too.  You were told that the eradication of Dead Cell six months ago was an act of the Patriots. We provoked and encouraged your hatred -- and you opted for vengeance, just as we planned. 
Fortune    : All orchestrated...? 
Ocelot     : Except for the appearance of the real Solid Snake. I wonder now, who sent for you...? 
[Fortune readies her rail gun.] 
Fortune    : All our misfortune was -- just a part of their project! 
[Ocelot quickly pulls out a revolver and shoots her in the chest.  It didn't miss.  She looks down. stunned.] 
Fortune    : H-how could -- ! 
Ocelot     : You're no Lady Luck. You have nothing we didn't give you. 
Fortune    : What? 
[She falls to her knees.  Scenes with Fortune are replayed.] 
Ocelot     : Do you know why no bullet could hit you? It wasn't magic or some New Age mumbo-jumbo. Certainly wasn't your psychic talents. It was all staged by the Patriots. 
Fortune    : Staged? 
Ocelot     : You were being shielded by the electromagnetic weapons technology that the Patriots developed. Your Dead Cell comrades loved your father and husband -- we needed a pathetic wretch like you to keep them focused. You've been our puppet all along --  just like Olga. You were hamming it up as the tragic heroine thanks to the script that the Patriots wrote for you. Pure self-indulgence -- you couldn't get enough of the drama. 
Fortune    : ...I could have died whenever I wanted to... 
[Fortune stands up with her gun at the ready.] 
Ocelot     : Hm? Thought I got her in the heart? 
[Fortune fires.  The shot is deflected by a field around Ocelot.] 
Raiden     : It missed! 
[Ocelot sneers at Raiden. He turns back to Fortune.] 
Ocelot     : 
Now I remember. Your heart's on the right. 
Fortune fires another shot and gets the same results. 
Ocelot     : Waste of metal, my dear. Your luck's run out. 
[Ocelot touches a small device on his belt.] 
Ocelot     : This is the little gizmo. There is no such thing as miracles or the super-natural only cutting-edge technology. 
[Solidus quickly whips out his P90 and fires off a whole clip at Ocelot.] 
Solidus    : HRR!! 
[All the shots go astray.] 
Fortune    : You bastard! 
[Fortune coughs up some blood and falls to the ground.  Ocelot leaps up towards Ray's cockpit and stands atop it.  Solidus fires some missiles at Ocelot from his tentacle arms. Once again they all go off course and miss. Ocelot make a taunting signal in the air and leaps into the cockpit of Ray. The great machine starts up and stands up.] 
Ocelot     : Now that I have enough data, all I have to do is retrieve Arsenal...and clean up the refuse from the exercise. 
Solidus    : Just try! 
[Solidus pulls out two swords and holds them at the ready.  Ray fires a stream of bullets at Solidus but he smoothly deflects all of them.  One of the bullets strikes Snake's handcuffs.] 
Snake      : !? 
[Ocelot decides on another course of action.] 
Ocelot     : How's this then!? 
[The missile holders on ray ready themselves.] 
Snake      : Damn! 
[Fortune has gottne up.  She steps in front of all the people atop Arsenal and extends her arms with her palms outwards, facing away from her.] 
Fortune    : Fortune! 
Solidus    : You idiot! Get the hell away from there! 
Ocelot     : I told you -- your luck's run out. Take your reward: it's all the payload RAY has. Die!! 
[Ray fires all its missiles into the sky.  They start to come down towards the defenseless people atop Arsenal.] 
Snake      : Everybody down! 
[All the missiles come down atop Fortune but as if by magic all the missiles are deflected outward. Leaving everyone unscathed.  Ocelot is stunned.] 
Ocelot     : What the -- ! Impossible! 
[Ocelot fires a different type of explosive at them but these too miss. Everyone is standing nonplussed and staring at Fortune.] 
Snake      : She is Lady Luck. 
Fortune    : My name is Helena Dolph Jackson. The daughter of a proud, noble soldier... 
[She stumbles forward and coughs.] 
Fortune    : I can... see my family... again... 
[Fortune dies and falls to the ground.] 
Ocelot     : Damn! ...Try this instead! 
[The front of Ray opens.] 
Snake      : No! 
[Just as he is about to press the button, Ocelot's arm begins to twitch.] 
Ocelot     : No! No, not now!! 
[Ray now is standing fully upright.  Ocelot climbs out of the cockpit.  When he speaks it is evident that Liquid has taken control of Ocelot once again.] 
Liquid     : Brothers!! 
Snake      : Liquid! 
Liquid     : I've been waiting for this. 
Solidus    : It can't be -- ? 
[Flashbacks of to Shadow Moses and scenes from the tanker.] 
Liquid     : I've been inside this arm all along, waiting for the right time to awaken. 
Snake      : You were inside Ocelot? 
Liquid     : Yes -- a sleeper in the arm of a Patriots' spy. 
Snake      : It was you two years ago!? 
Liquid     : Exactly. I was controlling him. Snake, it was I that leaked information about Arsenal to your partner and got you out here. You're the only one that can free me, after all... 
[Back to Arsenal.] 
Liquid     : I'm off to bury the Patriots for good. 
Solidus    : You know where they are? How? 
Liquid     : Why do you think I choose Ocelot as my host? But before I go, I have a family matter to settle with both of you. There's room for only one Snake, and one Big Boss! 
[Solidus fires missiles at Liquid but he is protected by the electromagnetic device on Ocelot's hip.] 
Solidus    : Grraah! 
[Liquid hops into the cockpit of Ray and slams his fist down onto a button.] 
Liquid     : Time to say goodbye. 
[Ray moves to the precipice that marks the edge of the bulk of Arsenal.] 
Snake      : Damn! 
[Snake struggles with his handcuffs.] 
Liquid     : Like surfing? It's a good way to go. 
[Soon Snake breaks his handcuffs and runs like a madman after the escaping Ray unit.] 
Snake      : Liquid! Stop this thing! 
Liquid     : Hey, Snake! You coming? 
Snake      : Hrrraa!!! 
[Ray leaps off of Arsenal and disappears into the waves.  Snake is following close behind.] 
Raiden     : Snaaaake!!! 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 11)  What the hell?
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
[Arsenal begins to move.  The great ship moves underneath the Verrazano Bridge and heads for Lower Manhattan.  The scene changes.  Solidus and Raiden are falling through the sky.  They both land on the rooftop of a building.  They both get up and take stock of the scene.  Arsenal has plowed it's way all the way through Lower Manhattan and they have both landed on top of a building that they both know...] 
Solidus    : Federal Hall! 
[Solidus starts to laugh and he throws up his arms.] 
Raiden     : What are you laughing at? 
Solidus    : Do you know what day it is today? 
Raiden     : ...April 30th? 
[Real footage of Federal Hall.] 
Solidus    : That's right. George Washington took office as the first president of the United States of America 200 years ago today. And it happened right here. We were going to declare  another independence -- the dawn of a new nation -- here. The end of the Patriots' secret rule,  liberation of this country -- this was where it was supposed to begin, this is where freedom could have been born. 
[Back to Solidus and Raiden.] 
Raiden     : All you want is power -- at any cost. 
Solidus    : Jack, it's not power I want. What I want is to take back from the Patriots are things like -- freedom, civil rights, opportunities. The founding principles of this country. Everything that's about to be wiped out by their digital censorship.  Jack, listen to me. We're all born with an expiration date. No one lasts forever. Life is nothing but a grace period -- for turning our genetic material into the next generation. 
[Water is shown.  The surface is rippling.] 
Solidus    : The data of life is transferred from parent to child. That's how it works. But we have no heirs, no legacy. Cloned from our father with the ability to reproduce conveniently engineered out. What is our legacy if we cannot pass the torch? Proof of our existence -- a mark of some sort.  When the torch is passed on from parent to child... It extends beyond DNA, information is imparted as well. 
[Back atop Federal Hall.] 
 
[Solidus throws his arms jubilantly to the sky.  Raiden gets a Codec call.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, are you receiving? We're still here. 
Raiden     : How's that possible!? The AI was destroyed! 
Colonel    : Only GW... 
Raiden     : Who are you? 
[The Colonel's face becomes a skull. It flashes back.  This happens several times.] 
Colonel    : To begin with -- we're not what you'd call -- human. Over the past two hundred years -- A kind of consciousness formed layer by layer in the crucible of the White House. It's not unlike the way life started in the oceans four billion years ago. The White House was our primordial soup, a base of evolution --  We are formless. We are the very discipline and morality that Americans invoke so often. How can anyone hope to eliminate us? As long as this nation exists, so will we. 
Raiden     : Cut the crap! If you're immortal, why would you take away  individual freedoms and censor the Net? 
Rose       : Jack, don't be silly. 
Colonel    : Don't you know that our plans have your interests -- not ours -- in mind? 
Raiden     : What? 
Rose       : Jack, listen carefully like a good boy! 
Colonel    : The mapping of the human genome was completed early this century. As a result, the evolutionary log of the human race lay open to  us. 
Rose       : We started with genetic engineering, and in the end, we succeeded in digitizing life itself. 
Colonel    : But there are things not covered by genetic information. 
Raiden     : What do you mean? 
Colonel    : Human memories, ideas. Culture. History. 
Rose       : Genes don't contain any record of human history. 
Colonel    : Is it something that should not be passed on? Should that information be left at the mercy of nature? 
Rose       : We've always kept records of our lives. Through words, pictures, symbols... from tablets to books... 
Colonel    : But not all the information was inherited by later generations. A small percentage of the whole was selected and processed, then passed on. Not unlike genes, really. 
Rose       : That's what history is, Jack. 
Colonel    : But in the current, digitized world, trivial information is accumulating every second, preserved in all its triteness. Never fading, always accessible. 
Rose       : Rumors about petty issues, misinterpretations, slander... 
Colonel    : All this junk data  preserved in an unfiltered state, growing at an alarming rate. 
Rose       : It will only slow down social progress, reduce the rate of evolution. 
Colonel    : Raiden, you seem to think that our plan is one of censorship. 
Raiden     : Are you telling me it's not!? 
Rose       : You're being silly! What we propose to do is not to control content, but to create context. 
Raiden     : Create context? 
Colonel    : The digital society furthers human flaws and selectively rewards the development of convenient half-truths. Just look at the strange juxtapositions of morality around you. 
Rose       : Billions spent on new weapons in order to humanely murder other humans. 
Colonel    : Rights of criminals are given more respect than the privacy of their victims. 
Rose       : Although there are people suffering in poverty, huge donations are made to protect endangered species. Everyone grows up being told the same thing. 
 
 
 
Rose       : But it's obvious from the start that only a few can succeed... 
 
 
Colonel    : The different cardinal truths neither clash nor mesh. No one is invalidated, but nobody is right. 
 
Colonel    : And this is the way the world ends. Not with a bang, but a whimper. 
Rose       : We're trying to stop that from happening. 
Colonel    : It's our responsibility as rulers. Just as in genetics, unnecessary information and memory must be filtered out to stimulate the evolution of the species. 
Raiden     : And you think you're qualified to decide what's necessary and not? 
Colonel    : Absolutely. Who else could wade through the sea of garbage you people produce, retrieve valuable truths and even interpret their meaning for later generations? 
Rose       : That's what it means to create context. 
Raiden     : I'll decide for myself what to believe and what to pass on! 
Colonel    : But is that even your own idea? 
Rose       : Or something Snake told you? 
Colonel    : That's the proof of your incompetence, right there. You lack the qualifications to exercise free will. 
Raiden     : That's not true! I have the right -- 
 
 
 
 
Raiden     : That's crap! 
Colonel    : Is it? Would you prefer that someone else tell you? Alright then. Explain it to him. 
Rose       : Jack, you're simply the best! And you got there all by yourself! 
Raiden     : Grrr... 
Colonel    : Oh, what happened? Do you feel lost? Why not try a bit of soul-searching? 
Rose       : Don't think you'll find anything, though... 
 
 
 
 
 
Rose       : Should someone like you even have the right to decide? 
Colonel    : You've done nothing but abuse your freedom. 
Rose       : You don't deserve to be free! 
Colonel    : We're not the ones smothering the world. You are. 
Rose       : The individual is supposed to be weak. But far from powerless -- a single person has the potential to ruin the world. 
Colonel    : And the age of digitized communication has given even more power to the individual. Too much power for an immature species. 
Rose       : Building a legacy involves figuring out what is wanted, and what needs to be done for that goal. All this, you used to struggle with. Now, we think for you. 
Colonel    : We are your guardians after all. 
Raiden     : You want to control human thought? Human behavior? 
Colonel    : Of course. Anything can be quantified nowadays. That's what this exercise was designed to prove. 
Rose       : You fell in love with me just as you were meant to, after all. Isn't that right, Jack? 
Colonel    : Ocelot was not told the whole truth, to say the least. 
Rose       : We rule an entire nation -- of what interest would a single soldier, no matter how able, be to us? 
Colonel    : The S3 Plan does not stand for Solid Snake Simulation. What it does stand for is Selection for Societal Sanity... 
[Scenes from the Arsenal Tengu fights and the Fission Mailed screen are shown.] 
Colonel    : The S3 is a system for controlling human will and consciousness. S3 is not you, a soldier trained in  the image of Solid Snake. It is -- a method, a protocol, that created a circumstance that made you what you are. 
Rose       : So you see, we're the S3. Not you. 
[Codec screen.] 
Colonel    : What you experienced was the final test of its effectiveness. 
Raiden     : That's crazy. 
Colonel    : You heard what President Johnson said. 
[President Johnson begins to speak.] 
 
Colonel    : The objective of this exercise was to establish such a method. 
[Scenes from Metal Gear Solid are shown.] 
Colonel    : We used Shadow Moses as a paradigm for the exercise. 
Rose       : I wonder if you would have preferred a fantasy setting? 
Colonel    : We chose that backdrop because of its extreme circumstances. It was an optimal test for S3's crisis management capacity. If the model could trigger, control and solve this, it would be ready for any contingency. And now, we have our proof. 
[Codec screen.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, there are also reasons behind your selection. Solidus raised plenty of other child soldiers. Do you know why we chose you over them? 
Raiden     : ??? 
Colonel    : It was because you were the only one who refused to acknowledge the past. All the others remember what they were, and pay for it daily. 
Rose       : But you turn your back on everything you don't like. You do whatever you like, see only the things you like, and for yourself alone. 
Colonel    : Yes -- Rose can attest to that. 
Rose       : You refused to see me for what I was. I lied to you, but I wanted to be caught.  You pretended to be understanding, to be a gentleman... You never made a conscious attempt to reach out to me... The only time you did was when I gave you no choice but to do so... 
Raiden     : I was just trying not to... 
 
Colonel    : Ha, ha, ha...exactly right. So you see, you're a perfect representative of the masses we need to protect. This is why we chose you. You accepted the fiction we've provided, obeyed our orders and did everything you were told to. The exercise is a resounding success. 
[Emma Emmerich begins to speak.] 
Emma       : Didn't I tell you that GW was still incomplete? But not anymore, thanks to you. 
Colonel    : Your persona, experiences, triumphs and defeats are nothing but byproducts. The real objective was ensuring that we could generate and manipulate them. It's taken a lot of time and money, but it was well worth it considering the results. I think that's enough talk. It's time for the final exercise. Raiden, take Solidus down. 
Raiden     : Think again! I'm through doing what I'm told! 
Colonel    : Oh really? Aren't you forgetting something? 
[Olga begins to speak.] 
Olga       : If you die, my child dies. 
Colonel    : The termination of vital signals from your nanomachines means the death of Olga's child.  Not to mention the death of Rose.  She's wired the same way. 
Raiden     : Rose -- does she actually exist? 
Rose       : Of course I do, Jack!  You have to beLIEve me! 
Raiden     : Damn... 
Colonel    : It will be a fight to the death. 
Rose       : Solidus, at least, wants you dead. 
Colonel    : We will collect the necessary data from this last fight, then we'll consider the exercise closed.  So, Jack the Ripper!  Will it be Solidus, the Patriots' creation? Or you -- Solidus' creation? Our beloved monsters -- enjoy yourselves. 
[The transmission ends, leaving the viewer terribly confused.] 
[Solidus slowly walks towards Raiden.] 
Solidus    : Jack...my son. My clone brothers and I are called monsters -- replicates of evil genes... You are one-of-a-kind -- But still a monster, shaped by a dark and secret history. We need to decide which monstrosity will have the privilege of survival. 
[Solidus squeezes his fist, savoring what he is about to say.] 
Solidus    : By the way, Jack, I was the one who killed your parents. 
Raiden     : !! 
[Raiden is shown as a young boy.] 
Solidus    : I claimed you for my own, and raised you as a soldier in the army of the Devil.  I am your foster father, and your worst enemy. 
Raiden     : Why? 
Solidus    : Because I needed to know whether we  were really someone else's creation. We're repeating history, Jack. 
[A picture of Big Boss appears in the middle of the screen.  He is flanked by Solid and Liquid on either side of him.] 
Solidus    : Liquid and Solid hunted down Big Boss, trying to sever the tie that bound them to him. Unless you kill me and face your past, Jack,  you will never escape. You'll stay in the endless loop -- your own double helix. 
Solidus    : It's time we were both free. 
[Solidus tosses Raiden's sword through the air.  At the end of its long arc it cuts down through Raiden's handcuffs and his hands are unbound.  He picks it up.] 
Solidus    : I have other reasons for wanting you dead. The clues to the Patriots inside GW have been erased, but are other traces. 
[He points one of his swords at Raiden.] 
Solidus    : Inside YOU. 
Raiden     : What? 
Solidus    : The information is being carried by the nanomachines in your cerebral cortex, and throughout the neural network they formed. 
[The two get in the ready position.] 
Solidus    : Brace yourself!! 
[The two of them fight.  After a brief scuffle Solidus pauses at the edge of the roof.] 
Solidus    : Good work, Jack. But this is where it gets interesting! 
[Solidus releases his tentacle arms and they go flying off.  He then starts an intense attack on Raiden.  Raiden gets a Codec call from the Colonel.] 
Colonel    : Raiden, you have to beat Solidus! This is your last duty! 
Raiden     : We're not just pawns in some simulation game, you know! 
Rose       : Yes, you are. You're nothing but mere weapons. No different from fighter jets or tanks. 
Raiden     : What the -- 
 
 
Colonel    : Both of these are the same as the code names used by the U.S. Armed Forces to refer to Japanese war planes during World War 2. 
 
Raiden     : Stop it! I'm not a weapon!! 
 
 
Colonel    : Both of you are just weapons to be used and thrown away. 
Rose       : Just weapons to be used on the battlefield. Just pawns in a game -- exactly as you said. 
Colonel    : And a weapon has no right to think for itself! Now, it's time to fulfill your purpose! Defeat Solidus! 
[They lock eyes.  Solidus makes his move.  He quickly moves forward and slashes downward at Raiden with both swords.  Raiden sees it coming and moves to the side.  As Solidus moves forward, Raiden moves to the back of him.  He raises his sword and brings it down right in the middle of Solidus's back.  The sword pierces his exoskeleton and severs his spine.  Blood pours out and electric sparks fly from the suit.] 
[Solidus drops both his swords as he staggers to the edge of the roof.  He looks briefly over the edge and then faces away from it.  He pauses and silently mutters something.  He then falls backwards with his left arm outstretched.] 
[Raiden hears his crash to the ground and raises his sword in triumph.] 
[At the base of Federal Hall, Solidus has landed at the statue of George Washington.  He reaches up to the statue with distinct reverence and then he exhales his final breath and his arms falls to his side.] 
[A moment later Raiden has climbed down from the roof and is standing in a deserted street. Then people start to appear out of nowhere and walk around. Nobody takes any notice of him.  Some police officers dash towards Federal Hall.] 
Raiden     : Who am I really... 
Snake      : No one quite knows who or what they are. 
[Raiden spins around to see Snake standing right beside him.] 
Snake      : The memories you have and the role you were assigned are burdens you have to carry. It doesn't matter if they were real or not. That's never the point. 
[Real life footage of New York City.] 
Snake      : There's no such thing in the world as absolute reality. Most of what they call real is actually fiction. What you think you see is only as real as your brain tells you it is. 
Raiden     : Then what am I supposed to believe in? What am I going to leave behind when I'm through? 
Snake      : We can tell other people about -- having faith. What we had faith in. What we found important enough to fight for. It's not whether you were right or wrong, but how much faith you were willing to have, that decides the future. The Patriots are a kind of ongoing fiction too, come to think of it.... 
Raiden     : ... 
Snake      : Listen, don't obsess over words so much. Find the meaning behind the words, then decide. You can find your own name. And your own future... 
Raiden     : Decide for myself...? 
Snake      : And whatever you choose will be you. 
Raiden     : I don't know if I can... 
Snake      : I know you didn't have much in terms of choices this time. But everything you felt, thought about during this mission is yours. And what you decide to do with them is your choice... 
Raiden     : You mean start over? 
Snake      : Yeah, a clean slate. A new name, new memories. Choose your own legacy. It's for you to decide. It's up to you. 
Snake      : By the way, what is that? 
[Snake notices Raiden's dog tag.  Raiden takes it off to look at it.] 
Raiden     : Dog tags? 
[The dog tag says the player's name and birth date and whatever else the player entered in the first node.] 
Snake      : Anyone you know? 
Raiden     : No, never heard the name before. I'll pick my own name...and my own life. I'll find something worth passing on. 
[He throws the dog tag as far as he can.] 
Raiden     : They taught me some good things too. 
Snake      : I know. We've inherited freedom from all those who've fought for it. We all have the freedom to spread the word. Even me. 
Raiden     : Snake, what about Olga's child. 
Snake      : Don't worry, I'll find him. Count on it. As long as you keep yourself alive, he's safe. 
Raiden     : Do you know where Liquid went? 
Snake      : I put a transmitter on his RAY. 
Raiden     : Did he head for the Patriots? 
Snake      : Yeah. But I have a feeling they gave Ocelot a bogus location to begin with. 
Raiden     : ... 
Snake      : Cheer up. We have a better lead. 
[Snake grabs a disc from his pocket.] 
Snake      : This contains a list of all the Patriots. 
Raiden     : But Ocelot took it! 
Snake      : The one we gave you wasn't the real thing. 
Raiden     : What? 
Snake      : This virus is coded to destroy only a specific part of GW -- namely the information about the Patriots identity. Which means, that there is a parameter coded in here that defines what that information is. 
Raiden     : I get it -- analyze the code and you can probably find out where they operate.  Count me in -- 
Snake      : No, you have things to do first. And people you need to talk to... 
Raiden     : ??? 
[Snake leaves.  Rose is standing in the street waiting for him.  Raiden turns around to face Snake.] 
Raiden     : Snake? 
[Snake is gone.  Emma's parrot flies up into the sky.] 
Rose       : What's wrong? 
Jack       : Nothing. 
[He turns around to face Rose.] 
Jack       : Can I ask you something? Who am I really? 
Rose       : I wouldn't know. But we're going to find out together, aren't we? 
Raiden     : Uh? Yeah... 
Rose       : See me for what I am, okay? 
Jack       : I know. 
[Scenes of New York.] 
Rose       : Do you remember this place? 
Jack       : Of course. This is where we first met... I remember now -- Today is the day I met you. That's it. I think I found something to pass along to the future. He said all living things want their genes to live on. 
Rose       : Are you talking about the baby? 
Jack       : Yeah. But genes aren't the only thing you pass on. There are too many things that aren't written into our DNA. It's up to us to teach that to our children. 
Rose       : What kind of things? 
Jack       : About the environment, our ideas, our culture... poetry... compassion... sorrow... joy... We'll tell them everything... together. 
Rose       : Is that a -- proposal? 
Jack       : This is for your ears -- only... 
[Cue the closing credits of the game.] 
[After the credits there is another monlogue from Snake.  This is accompanied by more scens of New York City.] 
Snake      : Life isn't just about passing on your genes. We can leave behind much more than just DNA. Through speech, music, literature and movies... what we've seen, heard, felt ...anger, joy and sorrow... these are the things I will pass on.  That's what I live for.  We need to pass the torch, and let our children read our messy and sad history by its light. We have all the magic of the digital age to do that with. The human race will probably come to an end some time, and new species may rule over this planet. Earth may not be forever, but we still have the responsibility to leave what traces of life we can. Building the future and keeping the past alive are one and the same thing. 
[The title of the game appears overlying an image of the Statue of Liberty.]  METAL GEAR SOLID 2: SONS OF LIBERTY 
[The screen fades to black but the title remains on screen.  Snake and Otacon are talking on the Codec.] 
Otacon     : Snake, you there? It's me. I've finished going over that disc. 
Snake      : Did you find the Patriots' list? 
Otacon     : Of course. It contains the personal data of twelve people. There was a name on it -- Snake, it was one of our biggest contributors. 
Snake      : What's going on around here? 
Otacon     : I don't know... 
Snake      : Anyway, where are they? 
Otacon     : Well, we were right about them being on Manhattan, but... 
Snake      : But what? 
Otacon     : They're already dead. All twelve of them. 
Snake      : When did it happen? 
Otacon     : Well, ah...about a hundred years ago. 
Snake      : What the hell? 
[The game ends with a creepy sound effect.]  
==============================================================================
==============================================================================  Miscellaneous Transmissions 
==============================================================================
============================================================================== 
Here you will find all of the miscellaneous transmissions from the game.
Basically anything that wasn't in the main storyline of the game. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 01)  The Terrorists and Dead Cell
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pliskin about Dead Cell
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Raiden     : Tell me a little more about Dead Cell. 
Pliskin    : Dead Cell was a shadow unit within the SEALS organization. 
Raiden     : Right. They handled surprise raids on vital government facilities, didn't they? 
Pliskin    : Yes. They were originally put together to check the nation's military security system. The unit was the brainchild of ex-president George Sears... Dead Cell was a secret unit positioned at the opposite end of anti-terrorist outfits such as Delta Force and SEALS. 
Raiden     : Were they always a ...group of madmen? 
Pliskin    : No. They got weird when Colonel Jackson -- Fortune's husband -- was sent to jail. 
Raiden     : Sent to jail? For what? 
Pliskin    : Corruption. He misappropriated government funds. 
Raiden     : Sounds like he deserved it... 
Pliskin    : That's what everybody else thought. Except for the members of Dead Cell. They felt the Colonel was falsely accused. Fact is, they took the case to the powers that be. But they never managed to reopen the case. 
Raiden     : Was there any truth to their claim? 
Pliskin    : Who knows? Whatever the situation is, Dead Cell's name was tainted. 
Raiden     : And Colonel Jackson...? 
Pliskin    : He was being held at Leavenworth... 
 
Pliskin    : Well... in a manner of speaking. The Colonel's dead. Apparently he lost the will to live and died in prison. The members of Dead Cell snapped with the loss of their leader. They underwent a radical change and became uncontrollable. 
Raiden     : And that's why they undertook this terrorist operation? 
Pliskin    : Seems as good a reason as any... 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pliskin about Vamp
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Vamp is a member of Dead Cell. Born in Romania, his specialty is knives. But I guess you know that by now. When he was just a kid, he lost his family to a terrorist bomb that went off in a church they were attending. His body pierced by a crucifix, Vamp was buried under the rubble for two days before he was finally rescued. During those two days, he survived by feeding on the blood of his family to quench his thirst. That was how he acquired a taste for blood... 
 
 
Raiden     : ... 
Pliskin    : Rumor has it Vamp was the lover of Scott Dolph, the Marine Commandant who accidentally died two years ago. Scott Dolph was also the father of Fortune, the Dead Cell leader. 
Raiden     : Fortune's old man? But Fortune and Vamp... 
Pliskin    : You noticed, eh? Not bad for a rookie... 
Raiden     : Uh... right. 
Pliskin    : As you say, Vamp and Fortune are very close. Not lovers, but very close... 
Raiden     : Friends? 
Pliskin    : No. There's more to their relationship than that. 
Raiden     : But Vamp was her father's lover! 
Pliskin    : Would it have been better if it was with her mother? I don't really think they care what you think. Focus on the mission. 
Raiden     : By the way, have you ever met the guy before? 
Pliskin    : No... 
Raiden     : But he seemed to know you... 
Pliskin    : Right. Well, I... no... ...it can't be... I told you that Dead Cell is a group of madmen... I wouldn't take anything they say very seriously. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pliskin about Fortune
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Raiden     : What do you know about that strange woman? 
Pliskin    : You mean Fortune? She's the Dead Cell leader. Her real name is Helena Dolph Jackson... known to her friends as Lady Luck. 
Raiden     : Lady Luck? 
Pliskin    : Yeah. She got the name because bullets seem to veer away from her in battle. People have heard her say that her fortune in battle was payback for the lousy luck she's had in life... 
Raiden     : Lousy luck? 
Pliskin    : The death of her father, the Marine commander... The conviction of husband and Dead Cell leader, Colonel Jackson... These events were followed by her mother's suicide -- the loss of a husband and the idea of a convict in the family apparently took her over the edge... Fortune was three months pregnant at the time and the shock of her mother's death led to the loss of her child. Add to this her husband's death in prison a few months later and... To sum it up, in the six months after her father's death, she lost her family and everything that mattered in her life. 
Raiden     : Geez, she's had it rough... 
Pliskin    : Yeah. The thing is, she didn't grieve long. Instead, she joined the military. 
Raiden     : Now why's that? 
 
Raiden     : Her soul? 
Pliskin    : Her uncanny luck earned her a reputation that led to her appointment as the head of her husband's unit, Dead Cell. She's the widow of Dead Cell's former beloved leader. I'd heard that she was welcomed with open arms by Vamp, who was the temporary leader at the time. For Vamp, it also meant welcoming the daughter of his former lover... 
Raiden     : Vamp and Fortune's mother...? 
Pliskin    : No. Vamp and Fortune's father... Vamp's bisexual. 
Raiden     : Oh... Wait a sec. I thought Vamp and Fortune... 
Pliskin    : Uh... yeah. 
Raiden     : ... 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pliskin about Fatman
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Fatman... Supposedly he's nicknamed after an atomic bomb, but to me he's just a fat man. Something straight out of a sideshow. If he even has a bit of spare time, he spends it disassembling and assembling his Glock, over and over again. He can't stand to have his hands still. He's extremely vain about his hands -- keeps his fingers as slender and soft as a woman's. They say he's always looking at his hands, giving himself manicures. Be careful of him. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Stillman about Fatman
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Raiden     : Stillman, tell me something about Fatman. 
Stillman   : Hmm... well, to start, he was born the son of a clockmaker. Neglected by his parents and without friends, it seems that he spent a lot of time by himself in his father's workshop. Maybe that was the reason, I'm not sure, but apparently he has had a  tremendous fascination with clock mechanics since he was a child.  It was at the age of ten that a guidebook that he found on the Internet changed his life forever. That guidebook served as the basis of his eventually piecing together an atomic bomb. It was from there that he came to be known as Fatman, and soon enough there was no one associated with bombs that didn't know his name. In a sense, Fatman was a hero. Although what he did was recognized only by those in the trade, I'm sure that it served to greatly stir the ego of the teenage boy at the center of it all. But he leaves his mark nowhere else.  Apparently, he was hated and shunned by everyone in school. So he went on to focus all his energy on explosives. He scorned the reality that surrounded him and instead chose to embrace a world that would easily grant him recognition. Well, to be sure, it never amounted to anything more than, say, occasionally bringing a gun into school.  Eventually, Fatman came to Indian Head, the exercise training facilities of the Naval School Explosive Ordnance Disposal at which I was a lecturer. He absorbed all kinds of knowledge, as if he hungered for bombs. Most of the students at Indian Head flunk out of what is truly a hellish curriculum. Despite this environment, he achieved extraordinarily high marks that were without precedent. After leaving Indian Head, he joined up with NEST (Nuclear Emergency Search Team), said to be the most accomplished bomb disposal unit. It was there that he apparently  got into some trouble. 
Raiden     : What, exactly? 
Stillman   : You got me. But Fatman was definitely not cut out for group operations from the very start. Having been ousted from NEST, he was picked up by Dead Cell, which was already becoming notorious for being a motley crew of sorts. It seems that it was through surprise attack maneuvers later conducted by Dead Cell that Fatman completely subdued his former companions from NEST. While being the most peculiar individual among my students, he was also the most talented. Be sure not to underestimate him. Are we clear? 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pliskin about Olga
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Raiden... don't ever turn your back on that Olga woman. Olga Gurlukovich... Daughter of Colonel Sergei Gurlukovich, ex-GRU and former Spetsnaz commander... She's the leader of Colonel Gurlukovich's private army that's been wandering around the Big Shell. Those men were gathered by Colonel Gurlukovich. Following his death, she inherited his command and now exercises full control. Her father's name was widely respected throughout the old Soviet regime and he was the goal of just about every military man. 
Raiden     : Why would a respected soldier become a leader of those cut-throats? 
Pliskin    : The collapse of the republic resulted in a lot of unemployed soldiers. Most found themselves suddenly cast out into the civilian world, hopelessly lost. The Colonel took these men in... He organized a mercenary army, and led his men from battle to battle in various disputed regions around the world... hoping that one day he would rebuild his homeland. Rumor has it that during the Shadow Moses incident, he planned to rendezvous with Liquid Snake's men and assist in their uprising. I assume that the revolt figured into his reconstruction plans for the Soviet regime. I also heard that Ocelot -- Liquid's right-hand man -- was an old friend of the Colonel's back in the old days of the Soviet Union. In any case, Olga inherited her father's military genius and has become a force to be reckoned with. She was born and raised on the battlefield, and she's as tough as she looks. Not my ideal choice for a date... 
Raiden     : You sound like you've met her. 
Pliskin    : No. I haven't had the pleasure. Just remember what I said... don't turn your back on her. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 02)  Otacon Equipment Descriptions
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
+=--=+=--=+ Bandage
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : You've picked up gel bandages, I see. When you're bleeding, select the bandage as an equipment to stop the blood. The bandage is a type of alginate dressing. It's a highly absorbent pad that gels blood and other fluids on contact. It releases calcium ions during absorption, hence the coagulating effect. 
+=--=+=--=+ Camera
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : I'll explain how to use the camera. That digital camera you have was specially made to take pictures of the prototype Metal Gear. When a picture is taken, the screen data is first stored in the camera's internal memory. Then it's automatically processed through various algorithms to protect against tampering. Each picture is electronically stamped and distinctively encrypted.  So, in the off chance that someone alters the data during transmission, we'll know immediately.  Oh -- there's a limit to the internal memory's capacity. If the memory becomes full,  overwrite the pictures you don't need anymore. When you're ready to take a shot, use the L1 and R1 buttons to scroll left or right among the picture previews at the bottom of the screen. Send the pictures to me when you're done. Press the Action button when you're in front of the workstation southeast from there, and the  pictures will be sent to me. Get some good shots! 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Cardboard Box
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : Using the old cardboard box trick, huh? Looks good on you, Snake. Camouflage is the best way to slip past enemy surveillance. But cardboard is just paper when it comes down to it. It won't withstand any serious assault for long. Don't rely on the trick too many times, either. And I recommend you keep it dry. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Chaff Grenade
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : Hey, you have a chaff grenade. You can use that to interfere with enemy radio communications and electronic devices for a short time. The chaff grenade is a weapon that disperses aluminum foil or metal-coated glass and plastic fibers to confuse the enemy radar. What you have is a portable application of the  chaff-launchers built into fighter planes. When detonated, the grenade releases tiny chaff pieces as well as miniaturized active jammers using a small amount of explosives. The grenade can't create full-scale chaff corridors or chaff clouds, but will form a Radar Cross Section area large enough for single-personnel use. This weapon is for electronic interference only, though. It has no effect on enemy personnel. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Cigarettes
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : Snake, are you smoking? You really should quit. First of all, it turns you into an instant target in the dark. As for what it means to your health, I won't even go there. Remember what Naomi said about lung cancer rates Everyone knows that it's a dangerous substance. 
Snake      : So's war, and I've done that all my life. 
Otacon     : Well, you can screw up your own body if you like, but think about other people, okay? 
Snake      : This is the new kind that has almost no second-hand smoke. It won't bother anyone. 
Otacon     : Oh really? Didn't I see you toss the butt off the bridge? Littering, polluting... 
Snake      : Ummm... 
Otacon     : You have a long way to go, my friend. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Empty Magazine
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : Snake, you have an empty magazine in your hand. Why are you still carrying that around? 
+=--=+=--=+ Grenade
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : I see you have the grenade equipped. It's an anti-personnel frag grenade -- throw it at the enemy and the blast and fragments will take the enemy out. Watch out -- pushing the Weapon button will pull out the pin. Release the Weapon button to toss it. The throwing distance depends on how hard you push the Weapon button. After pulling the pin, you'll have five seconds until the grenade explodes. Get familiar with changing the timing and throwing distance of the grenade before it goes off. 
+=--=+=--=+ M9
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : What you're wielding right now is a converted Beretta M-92F, designed to fire tranquilizer rounds. A direct hit will knock the target unconscious. Think of those rounds as tiny syringes. The impact of the round causes the mixing of two chemicals in the shell. The resulting gas compresses a tiny piston and injects the tranquilizer in the bullet's tip into the target's skin. The tranquilizer's effects are felt at different times depending on where the bullet lands. A head or heart shot will take effect immediately, but a round that hits somewhere like feet or hands will take a while. Use the First Person View Attack for maximum accuracy. The gun is fitted with a suppressor, so there is no need to worry about alerting the enemy with the noise. But since it is a tranquilizer gun, the M9 has its limitations. All it can do is knock the enemy unconscious. Keep that in mind. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pentazemin
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : You have Pentazemin in your inventory. If you need to take some, select it in the Item Window and push the Enter button. Pentazemin is a mild tranquilizer used to treat clinical depression, obsessive-compulsive behavior, and anxiety. It belongs to the benzodiazepinate family, and along with its antidepressant and anti-anxiety qualities, it suppresses convulsions. Take it when you have a tough shot ahead with the sniper rifle and you need to minimize shakiness. But I guess you don't have one of those yet. Well...you can also try some if you're feeling really seasick.  After taking the Pentazemin 
Snake      : Otacon, I took the Pentazemin and you're right -- the seasickness is gone! 
Otacon     : Wow! Really!? 
 
Otacon     : Drugs are mostly about placebo effect. If you believe it's effective, it is. You're more naive than I thought. 
Snake      : ... 
+=--=+=--=+ Ration
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : So you've got rations now. These are military food supplies, and allow you to recover some LIFE with use. If it is equipped in advance, the ration will automatically be used and LIFE will be regained when you receive damage. You can select it in the window and push the confirmation button to use the item on the spot. Rations were designed to be carried and eaten on the field. They're all about functionality and calories. They use a special freeze-drying methods developed by NROC. They're compact,  portable, and last for weeks. 
+=--=+=--=+ AP Sensor
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : You're using the Anti-personnel Sensor, I see. It measures the electromagnetic fields and heartbeat of life forms and converts the data into vibrations. If an enemy draws near, it will vibrate. The stronger the vibration, the closer the enemy is. But, remember, when using the Anti-personnel Sensor, you'll only be able to feel the vibrations coming from the sensor. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Stun Grenade
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : The stun grenade in your equipment is for incapacitating enemies without killing them. Stun grenades are non-lethal weapons that knock out enemy personnel with an intense flash of light and a burst of sound. Once the grenade is airborne, a timed detonator ejects an internal cartridge using a small amount of explosives. The cartridge then explodes, and releases a flash rated at over a million candlepower, with an accompanying bang of over 200 decibels. The combinations of the flash and the bang temporarily overwhelms human sensory perceptions. There are no projectiles released, so it can only knock out enemies, not wound them. Keep that in mind. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Thermal Googles
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : You have the Thermal Goggles equipped huh? They provide night vision by using variances in heat distribution to create an image. It uses a two dimensional solid state projection system to create high-res images at sixty fps in real-time. By using the Thermal Goggles, you can take a look at the enemy's neck to see if they have dog tags or not. 
+=--=+=--=+ USP
+=--=+=--=+ 
Otacon     : Snake, that handgun of yours is a USP. The USP comes in a variety of calibers, from a 9mm to a .45. Yours is a 9mm, with 15 rounds per magazine. It's also equipped with a flashlight for nighttime shooting. In the dark, select the USP and aim to turn on the light. Unlike the M9, the USP isn't suppressor-equipped. The gunshots may bring enemy reinforcements running, so be careful. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 03)  Otacon's Proverbs
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
 
Snake      : What is this, all of a sudden? 
Otacon     : Oh, I figured you'd need a lot of motivation, so I came prepared. It's from 'The Three Musketeers' -- the book, not the candy bar. Anyway, it means that if you go up against everyone by yourself, they'll gang up on you too. I think. Since you're on your own on that ship, you need to take this to heart and avoid confrontations. How was that? Just like the old days, huh? 
Snake      : Almost reminds me of Mei Ling, but... You sure you got it right? 
Otacon     : Of course! And I'll teach you a lot more of these, you can count on it. 
Snake      : Great...  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : ...okay. If you say so. 
Otacon     : I do, Snake. Don't take unnecessary risks just because you're greedy for more Items. Remember the Deep family's fish.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : What do jeans have to do with nature and order? 
Otacon     : Denim should fray and rip on its own, naturally. Right? Some designers tried to go against that, and -- no one bought them! The earnings report from that fiscal year is enough of a proof! 
Snake      : Earnings...?  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Did they even have daylight savings back then? 
Otacon     : Of course not! They knew how to save time. We're the ones that need to be tricked into it. 
Snake      : But you said -- 
Otacon     : The moment never returns, Snake. Let's not waste it on idle questions. 
Snake      : Okay...?  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Look -- this stuff seems nothing like what Mei Ling used to talk about. 
Otacon     : Hey, she couldn't do better herself!  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Sure. All right. 
Otacon     : ...Not a promising start. OK, forget what I said -- just go along with my advice.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Did you say something? 
Otacon     : No, nothing. So, uh, forgetting the pain when the wound's healed means... Um -- That you have to get better fast! Yeah, that's it. So stock up on those rations and bandages. 
Snake      : Is that really all it means? 
Otacon     : Hey, I'm the expert here.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Hold on. I thought the idea of Original Sin was that you had to work even harder at being good because you were born evil! 
Otacon     : Er -- oh yeah, that too. Very good, Snake.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Otacon     : You know the story about Achilles and Paris? The moral here is -- er -- something about his heel? Anyway, even the great and virtually immortal hero Achilles was finally done in by Paris. Talk about a dangerous city. So don't get complacent. The mission can turn around and get you. 
Snake      : Wasn't Paris a person? Paris. I thought he was a -- 
Otacon     : Snake, there's a time and place for conspiracy theories. Please, I'm trying to concentrate here. 
Snake      : Huh? Ah, sorry...?  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : This seems to be getting more and more random. 
Otacon     : Correction -- it's becoming more deep. Trust me.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : ...I really think you've got this one wrong.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Look, what I heard from Mei Ling was that -- 
Otacon     : Snake, have you noticed that you bring her up a lot? 
Snake      : Huh? That isn't the -- 
Otacon     : Here we go again. What am I going to do with you? Like I was saying -- You and your hyperactive libido. It's a good thing one of us can keep all the details straight.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
Snake      : Why would aliens be in an old Chinese proverb? 
Otacon     : Everyone knows they've been visiting us for thousands of years. 
Snake      : ...news to me.  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 
???        : What a crock! What did you do with that little cheat sheet I made you! 
Otacon     : Er -- 
???        : Oh, there it is -- Hey! 
Otacon     : Er, that's really a... 
???        : How could you do that! You know how busy I am and you -- !! 
Otacon     : It's not what you think... 
???        : Oh, so what am I thinking? 
Snake      : What's going on over there? 
???        : Oh, hi, Snake. Do you know that Otacon's been -- 
Otacon     : Er, Mei Ling, we're in the middle of a mission and everything! So can we, you know... 
 
Otacon     : Yeah, Snake! Good luck! 
Mei Ling   : You, I'm not done with. 
Otacon     : Ack... Let's discuss this, shall we?  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Otacon     : Err... 
Snake      : What happened to Mei Ling? 
Otacon     : Hee. She got mad and went offline. 
Snake      : What did you do? 
Otacon     : Nothing! Now don't we need to get back to the mission? So much to do, so little time... 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 04)  Pliskin's Equipment Descriptions
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
+=--=+=--=+ AKS-74u
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : So, you've got an AKS-74u. If you wear an enemy's field outfit and carry an AK, you can pass for one of them. The AK is an outstanding rifle in terms of precision and reliability. As evidenced by widespread licensed manufacturing -- not to mention large quantities of illegal reproductions -- the AK is in high demand around the world. It is often used as reference for the design of new rifle models. Designs for Israel's Galil, Finland's Valmet, and other rifles are based on the basic structure of the AK. You have a smaller model of the AKS-74 that was designed for use by Special Forces personnel. The stock will only extend to a maximum length of 726mm ...a feature that makes the rifle easier to handle in small spaces.  Without suppressor 
Pliskin    : The AK can be fitted with a suppressor. With a suppressor, you won't have to worry about your gunshots being heard.  With suppressor 
Pliskin    : So, you're using the suppressor. Now you won't have to worry about the enemy hearing your gunshots. 
+=--=+=--=+ Bandage
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : I see you have the bandage equipped. Whenever you're bleeding, select the bandage in the menu display and press the Confirmation button to stop the bleeding. The bandage is an absorption pad made from alginate fiber. As you probably know, when alginate fibers come into contact with blood or liquids, the colloid gels to produce a moist condition for speeding up the healing process. With outstanding absorption properties in terms of speed and capacity, bandages effectively stop bleeding. 
+=--=+=--=+ B.D.U.
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : I see you're wearing the enemy field uniform(B.D.U.). Looks pretty good on you. 
Raiden     : Cut it out. It's bad enough that I'm dripping with sweat wondering when somebody's gonna see through my disguise. 
Pliskin    : Don't worry. And quit being so sensitive. At least your walk won't give you away... 
Raiden     : My walk? Whaddya mean my walk? 
Pliskin    : Nothing. Forget I said it. I'd worry more about the fact that the uniform's a little small for your size. It just might come off when you bump into an enemy... Normally, a proper-fitting uniform is issued to a soldier. You're just going to have to fit your movement to the uniform... 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Binoculars
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Body Armor
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Snake      : I see you're wearing body armor. That's a great way to minimize damage. Your body armor is interwoven with a special fiber made from high-performance polymer materials. The special fiber tangles around a bullet to cushion and spread out the impact to keep damage at a minimum. Bear in mind that the armor just reduces damage. It doesn't eliminate it. 
+=--=+=--=+ Book
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Raiden... what've you got there? Oh, come on... don't play dumb. That kind of thinking might even be helpful on the battlefield. 
Raiden     : Yeah, but... 
Pliskin    : Look... aside from its educational value, you can probably use it to distract an enemy... 
+=--=+=--=+ C4
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : I see you've managed to get a hold of some C4 plastic explosive. Containing inert plasticizers, it's a white, claylike material. It's a very stable explosive with over 1.3 times the power of TNT. Immune to heat or shock, C4 will only explode when triggered by a detonator. Since your wireless detonator is equipped with both a scrambler and encryption, you don't have to worry about the C4 being accidentally triggered by other wavelengths such as those emitted by jamming devices. You set the C4 with the Weapon button and detonate it with the Punch button. One other thing... don't get caught in its blast. 
+=--=+=--=+ Camera
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Planning to take some pictures? Well, you've got the right camera for the task. With auto-focus and zoom features, this camera guarantees clear pictures. It won't wear with use... so take all the shots you want. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Cardboard Box
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The cardboard box that you have is ideal for fooling your enemies. It's a very important tool for infiltration missions. Of course. I can't begin to count the number of agents whose lives were saved by a cardboard box... 
Raiden     : You mean everyone's using them? 
Pliskin    : Look. I'm not exaggerating when I say the success of your mission hinges on how you use that cardboard box. But in the end, a cardboard box is only made of paper. Handle it with care or it won't be of much use to you. Y'know... I've lost a couple thanks to you... 
Raiden     : ? 
Pliskin    : Nothing... forget it. Treat your cardboard box with care. Take care of the box and it'll take care of you... Don't think of it as just another box. Treat it with love... Don't be rough. Okay? 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Chaff Grenade
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : You're holding a chaff grenade -- an electronic warfare weapon designed to disrupt electronic equipment and jam transmissions. Detonated with a small charge, the grenade releases chaff and a miniature active jammer. The grenade should render electronic equipment useless for a brief period of time. It's important to note that radar and other equipment which you might have on hand will also be affected. So be careful with the thing if you're using electronic devices. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Cigarettes
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : I see you've still got those cigarettes I gave you. 
Raiden     : I quit a long time ago... 
Pliskin    : Maybe now's the time to start again? Just joking, kid. Those things'll stunt your growth and ruin your health. But in the battlefield, you'll find there's other uses for those cigarettes besides smoking. I'm sure you'll figure out how to use 'em when the time comes... 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Claymore
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : That's a Claymore mine. The Claymore is a directional mine that can be set up on the ground. It's mainly used for ambush or defense. It can also be used against light vehicles and other soft- skinned targets. This mine goes off when it detects someone approaching from the front. The explosion fans out shrapnel and metal balls to create a fan-shaped destructive zone. An important thing to remember is that the sensor is not selective... the mine will attack friend or foe. What I'm trying to say is -- don't trigger your own trap. You can recover a set Claymore by crawling up to it carefully. That means you can collect enemy Claymores for your own use if necessary... 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Coolant
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The coolant spray that you have is great for freezing the C4 set by Fatman. After you equip the spray, you can discharge the coolant by pressing the Weapon button. When the coolant is exposed to the open air, it changes into a gel and adheres to the C4 and stays at a low temperature. Spray a lot of coolant to cover the C4 and make sure that it won't melt away. This means that once you coat the C4 with this stuff, you can assume it won't explode. You've got enough there so you don't have to worry about running out. It's important to remember that once you equip yourself with the spray, you won't be able to move. If an enemy approaches while you're spraying the coolant, the best thing to do is put it away and hide. On top of dealing with the C4, you can use the spray against an enemy. Don't forget that. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Directional Mic
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The directional microphone is a very sensitive piece of equipment that picks up the slightest sound. It's a high-precision mike that's been designed to pick up sounds in front of it. In short, it will pick up sounds in the direction you point it. The microphone comes equipped with a miniature amplifier that will pick up a heartbeat if it's pointed properly at a living target. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Empty Magazine
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : What you've got there is an empty magazine for hand guns and automatic weapons. Press the Weapon button for the windup, and release the button to throw it. Hitting an enemy with it won't do much damage. But if used properly, it will provide a distraction. Throwing distance depends on how strong you press the Weapon button. It might be even more useful if you can accurately throw the magazine to a desired spot 
+=--=+=--=+ Grenade
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The hand grenade is an anti- personnel weapon that is manually delivered to a target. Put simply -- you throw it. The blast itself and the resulting shrapnel takes out enemy targets. You press the Weapon button to pull the pin, and release the button to throw the grenade. Throwing distance varies with how hard you press the Weapon button. After pulling the pin, you have about five seconds before the grenade explodes. Those five seconds combined with the throwing distance gives you a certain amount of tactical flexibility. 
+=--=+=--=+ M4
+=--=+=--=+ 
 
+=--=+=--=+ M9
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : That's a tranquilizer gun with a sound suppressor. Hit an enemy with that and it's good night, sleep tight... The time in which the tranquilizer takes effect depends on where you hit your target. If you want to knock somebody out with a single shot, aim carefully for vital spots like the head or heart. 
Raiden     : I think I've seen this modified gun before... 
Pliskin    : Yeah. It looks like the same gun used by Solid Snake two years ago. Following that terrorist incident, similar models were made and sold among the fans of his exploits. I think that's one of them. That's an American military M9 modified for tranquilizer bullets. When the tranquilizer bullets hit a target, the round uses the force of the impact to mix the drug, also producing a gas in the process. The pressure of the gas drives a built-in piston that injects the target with a powerful anesthetic. It's like firing a small hypodermic syringe. This M9 is a tranquilizer gun that knocks out the enemy... it doesn't kill them. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Mine Detector
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Night Vision Googles
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Those night vision goggles will let you see in the dark. The goggles are equipped with an image intensifier that amplifies even the lowest levels of light to produce clear images. Night vision devices were introduced in the 1940s. Since then, they've undergone several modifications to improve both sensitivity and resolution. Incidentally, the set you're using is a fourth-generation model. 
+=--=+=--=+ Nikita
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : You've got yourself a remote-controlled missile. Referred to as Nikita, it's a wireless guided projectile. It's a surveillance missile based on Micro Air Vehicle technology. You control it by watching the image transmitted from the CCD camera mounted on the missile. Although it's primarily designed for scouting missions, it carries a small explosive charge that allows a long-distance attack. You can also trigger the charge by removing it from equip status following the missile's launch. You won't be able to move while controlling the missile. Also, you'll have to be careful that you don't run out of fuel while it's in flight. Unlike VR training, you won't have a bird's-eye view to help you control the missile. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Pentazemin
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : You have the Pentazemin equipped, huh. To steady your hands when aiming with a sniper rifle, select Pentazemin in the menu display and press the Confirmation button. Pentazemin is a benzodiazepine anti-depressant used in the treatment of disorders such as depression and autonomic imbalance. In addition to its calming effect, it also relaxes muscular tension and combats convulsions. The result is a steady set of hands. One more thing... Pentazemin does not prevent seasickness... 
Raiden     : Seasickness...? What are you talking about? 
Pliskin    : I mean sometimes faith can overcome medical science. Never mind... 
+=--=+=--=+ PSG-1
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The PSG1 is an anti-terrorist automated sniper rifle. It features roller-locked action which allows a full free-floating barrel. The end result is an automatic rifle with precision equal to that of a bolt-action sniper rifle. The rifle has a 5-round group capacity of 50 mm at a range of approximately 270 meters. In my opinion, the PSG1 is one of the finest sniper rifles in the world. Although you've probably fired a few rounds in VR training, there are a few differences in handling the rifle you should be aware of. First, that the PSG1 is equipped with a special magnification-adjustable scope. For precision shooting, it allows you to zoom in on your target. And for wide-range viewing, all you have to do is zoom out. Another difference is that you aren't limited to firing from the prone position. In short, you can fire from a crouching or standing position. However, the less stable your position, the tougher it is to hold your aim steady. For accuracy, the best thing to do is crawl up to your target and fire from a prone position. 
+=--=+=--=+ PSG-1 T
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The PSG1-T that you have there is a PSG1 with a modified barrel for firing tranquilizer rounds. It handles like a PSG1. The only difference is that it spares lives. It's up to you whether you want to use it or not. 
+=--=+=--=+ Rations
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : You've got rations. Rations are military food provisions capable of LIFE recovery. Select a ration in the menu display and press the Confirmation button for LIFE recovery. If you equip yourself with rations, you can automatically recover LIFE the moment it hits zero. Field rations are not just emergency food. For a soldier, it's a vital factor in maintaining combat efficiency. Rations are the result of concentrated research and development efforts on the part of the U.S. Military's Cooking Laboratory. Together with calories, meticulous attention is focused on balanced nutrition. Freeze-dried, the rations are easy to carry and keep well. It ain't home cookin', but it'll satisfy your nutritional needs. 
Raiden     : Hmmm. 
Pliskin    : What's on your mind? 
Raiden     : Well, just between you and me? 
Pliskin    : Sure. What is it? 
Raiden     : I prefer rations over Rose's home cooking... 
Pliskin    : That bad, huh? 
+=--=+=--=+ RGB6
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : You've got an RGB6. A Croatian- manufactured 40mm, 6-round grenade launcher. It's a weapon that was unavailable in VR training. The RGB6 has a spring-driven revolver-type cylinder for handling six grenades. It delivers grenades with greater accuracy than throwing the things, and it's effective for taking out enemies with body armor -- not to mention those hiding behind objects. Since a launched grenade travels on a parabolic trajectory, hitting a target depends on your angle of fire. 
+=--=+=--=+ Sensor
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : You're using your Anti-Personnel Sensor. It vibrates whenever an enemy is approaching your position. The sensor responds to the electromagnetic field and heartbeat of life forms. The closer an  enemy, the bigger the vibration. It's a useful device. But  remember that if you're equipped with the sensor, you won't be able to feel any other vibrations around you. It's like  life... You gain something only to lose something else. It's up to you to decide where and when you want to use it. 
+=--=+=--=+ Sensor A
+=--=+=--=+ 
 
Pliskin    : (see above) We got a lot of use out of this thing. We probably won't need it anymore. 
+=--=+=--=+ Sensor B
+=--=+=--=+ 
 
Pliskin    : (see above) However, since we've taken care of all the C4, and given the fact that Fatman is no longer with us... I don't think we'll need this sensor anymore. 
+=--=+=--=+ SOCOM
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : That pistol you have is a SOCOM. It's a 45-caliber Offensive Handgun designed for the American Special Ops Command. With twelve rounds of 45ACP's, it has outstanding stopping power. The SOCOM has a minimum service life averaging over 6,000 rounds, and has a five-round group capacity that extends within a 1.4-inch radius. It's a bit large, but the SOCOM is a gun you can trust. It also comes equipped with a laser aiming module.  Without suppressor 
Pliskin    : A suppressor can be attached to the SOCOM to silence gunshots. You should try to find one.  With suppressor 
Pliskin    : You've got a suppressor, too. Your SOCOM's got a suppressor. The suppressor uses multiple partitions to reduce gas discharge and keep sound and muzzle fire to a minimum. By keeping the internal baffles moist, sound can be reduced by approximately thirty-eight decibels. That suppressor can be screwed and secured to 10 different positions. This function allows you to adjust the gun's impact point. But that doesn't really matter. That's because the suppressor's already been adjusted. You should be able to get the same results you got when you didn't have a suppressor attached. 
+=--=+=--=+ Stinger
+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : The Stinger is a portable surface-to-air missile launcher. Once you lock on to a target and fire, the missile will automatically pursue the target using its infrared seeker. However, the Stinger you have hasn't been updated to deal with countermeasures. The missile's seeker might be thrown off course by flares. Don't forget that. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Stun Grenade
+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : A stun grenade, huh? It's a non-lethal weapon designed to daze enemies with a blinding flash of light and an ear-splitting bang. When it goes off, it emits a flash equivalent to 2.5 million candels and an explosive sound of over 160 decibels. In simpler terms, that's over 120 times the brightness of a police flashlight and the sound of a jet during take-off. There is also a lot of heat. But that's only at the millisecond level. So don't expect it to ignite anything. The sound emission is also at the millisecond level so there's no permanent damage to the victim's hearing. Used properly, your enemies will lose consciousness... it's not a lethal weapon. 
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ Thermal Googles
+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+ 
Pliskin    : Those Thermal Goggles provide night vision by creating images from heat distribution. The goggles have a resolution of over 400,000 pixels. This performance is largely attributed to the use of a two-dimensional solid projection system with outstanding electric charge transfer capability. With these goggles, you can probably see Claymore mines that are rendered invisible with stealth camouflage.  If you look around the necks of enemy soldiers, you can probably make out their dog tags. 
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 05)  Emma's Arguments
_____________________________________________________________________________ // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = // = /
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 
Otacon     : Okay, Raiden. Let me talk to Emma. 
Raiden     : Sure. One condition... no arguing. 
Otacon     : No problem. Put her on. 
[Raiden does so.] 
Otacon     : E.E.? Is that you? 
Emma       : Yes. What do you want? 
Otacon     : Why did you get involved in weapons development? A lot of people will get hurt... even more will die!  I'm talking about the destruction of homes and cities... radioactive contamination for years to come. You of all people should know the horror of nuclear weapons! You know about our family's dark history! Why, E.E.? Why!? 
Emma       : You left me... you made my life a living hell! 
Otacon     : I didn't have a choice! 
Emma       : Don't lie to me! The pool... you could never look me in the eye after the accident! You took the easy way out, so you wouldn't have to face me! That way, you could avoid responsibility every day... You ran... you ran away so you wouldn't have to face the pain! 
Otacon     : No... that's not why I left... 
Emma       : You left me and took the easy way out... 
Otacon     : That's not true. I left the house because... 
Emma       : You're a criminal! Just like me! 
Otacon     : A... criminal...? 
Emma       : I know what you did! You manipulated our account on the network... Look at what you're doing now... you're nothing but a cracker! 
Otacon     : No. I'm just applying my knowledge for the cause... 
Emma       : The cause!? What cause!? Justice!? 
Otacon     : For peace, E.E.! I'm not like Snake... I can't carry a gun and face the enemy... That's why I do what I do best... 
Emma       : Oh, right! Nice justification, Hal! Forget about being a criminal. You'd make a great lawyer! 
Snake      : All right already... That's enough!  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Raiden     : Uh... 
Emma       : Out of my way! Let me talk! 
Raiden     : You want to talk to Otacon? 
Raiden     : I'll put him on... Snake... 
Emma       : Let me talk to him! 
Raiden     : Uh, yeah. 
Snake      : Otacon's busy right now. You'll have to settle for me. 
Emma       : What...? O-okay... 
Snake      : Right. Now what do you want? 
Emma       : Hal's wrong. Science doesn't exist to benefit the world. 
Snake      : Then what is it for? 
Emma       : Science is for the individual. For me, it's a way to realize my dreams. 
Snake      : That sounds pretty greedy. 
Emma       : You can't realize your dreams without greed. 
Snake      : And what's your dream? 
Emma       : Take revenge on Hal... to beat him at his own game... 
Snake      : Revenge? 
Emma       : I'm gonna make him regret the day he left me... I'm going to make him realize he was wrong! 
Snake      : Of all the idiotic... I think that's enough. 
Emma       : Idiotic!? It's my goal! My reason for being alive! Hal is wrong! He's only being used by his country! He's pitiful! Even you guys are using him! Me...I'm using science to achieve my own dream! 
Emma       : Real bright, lady! That's exactly the line that scientists are never meant to cross! 
Emma       : Right! I sold my soul for revenge! I will never forgive him! 
Snake      : I'll pretend this conversation never happened... 
Emma       : No! You tell my brother exactly what I said! You... 
Snake      : Emma! 
Emma       : W-What...? 
Snake      : You're speaking your mind... not your heart. Just leave it at that. 
Emma       : Um... okay...
